รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with CEO of Formula One Group


วันอังคารที่ 23 เมษายน 2567
PM meets with CEO of Formula One Group
PM meets with CEO of Formula One Group
April 22, 2024, at 10.30 hrs, Mr. Stefano Domenicali, CEO of the Formula One Group, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin. Deputy Government Spokesperson Radklao Inthawong Suwankiri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister hopped that this visit to Thailand of the Formula One Group CEO to explore the feasibility of organizing a Formula One Grand Prix in the country would be fruitful. He hoped that the Formula One Group would be able to obtain in-depth information on possible race route and Thailand’s potentiality for hosting a Formula One Grand Prix. The Prime Minister also affirmed the Government’s full support.
The Formula One Group CEO expressed his excitement to have visited Thailand, and hoped that the two sides be able to work together to achieve the common goal, which would bring about benefits to the Thai economy, communities, and youth development.
The Prime Minister affirmed Thailand’s readiness to host the Formula One Grand Prix in Bangkok. This is as part of the Government’s policy to enhance the country’s potential and opportunity through organization of international events. Thailand stand ready to work together and cooperate with the company. The Prime Minister expressed confidence that the country would become a very impressive Formula One Grand Prix host country with its potentiality, all the facilities, and Thai people’s hospitality.
*** The meeting was the consequence of a teleconference call between the two parties on March 11, 2024 during the Prime Minister’s official visit to the Republic of France. The Formula One Group expressed interest in Thailand as its potential street race venue, on which the Prime Minister affirmed the country’s readiness, and extended his invitation for Mr. Domenicali to visit Thailand to explore the feasibility of organizing a Formula One Grand Prix in the country.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/82081