รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on January 9, 2023. 


วันพุธที่ 17 มกราคม 2567
17/01/2567
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on January 9, 2023.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Extension of period for drafting of secondary legislation issued under Personal Data Protection Act B.E. 2562 (2019)
The cabinet approved the extension of period for drafting of 4 subordinate legislations issued under the Personal Data Protection Act B.E. 2562 (2019), as proposed by Ministry of Digital Economy and Society, for another year from January 11, 2024 onward.
Gist
Ministry of Digital Economy and Society reported that there are altogether 22 subordinate legislations, to be enacted under the Personal Data Protection Act B.E. 2562 (2019), 16 of which have been announced in the Royal Gazette, 2 of which are in the process of being announced in the Royal Gazette. However, there are 4 draft announcements which cannot be enacted before the deadline prescribed in Section 22 (2) of the Act on Legislative Drafting and Evaluation of Law, B.E. 2562 (2019). Therefore, it is deemed necessary for the Ministry to request for approval of the cabinet on the extension of period for drafting of the 4 subordinate legislations, which are: 1) Draft announcement of the Personal Data Protection Committee issued according to Section 28 (1) of the Personal Data Protection Act B.E. 2562; 2) Draft announcement of the Personal Data Protection Committee issued according to Section 29 (2) of the Personal Data Protection Act B.E. 2562; 3) Draft announcement of the Personal Data Protection Committee issued according to Section 24 (1) of the Personal Data Protection Act B.E. 2562; and 4) Draft announcement of the Personal Data Protection Committee issued according to Section 26 (3) of the Personal Data Protection Act B.E. 2562.
Title: Draft Ministerial Announcements Issued under Chapter 4 (Water Allocation and Water Use) of Water Resources Act, B.E. 2561
The cabinet approved in principle 3 draft Ministerial Announcements Issued under Chapter 4 (Water Allocation and Water Use) of Water Resources Act, B.E. 2561, as proposed by Office of National Water Resources (ONWR). The 3 draft Ministerial Announcements are as follows:
Draft ministerial regulations specifying nature or detail on use of each type of water, B.E. ....
Draft ministerial regulations specifying licensing fees for use of second and third types of water, B.E. ...
Draft ministerial regulations specifying criteria for determining water usage fee rates for second and third types of water, and criteria, methods, and conditions for reduction or exemption of water usage fees, B.E. ....
Title: Report on the Industrial Economics Status for October 2023 and the year 2023, and outlook for the year 2024
The cabinet acknowledged Industrial Economic Report for for October 2023 and the year 2023, and outlook for the year 2024, as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
Based on the report, manufacturing production index (MPI) for October 2023 contracted by 4.3% YoY due to the contraction in the export of several products as a result of global economic recession. Key industries that caused the contraction were automobiles (-7.43%), electronics parts and circuit (-17.48%), and computer and peripherals (-32.89%), whereas key industries that expanded well in April 2023 (YoY) were petroleum refinery products (+22.48%), and plastics and primary synthetic rubber (+12.49%).
Manufacturing production index (MPI) for the whole year of 2023 is expected tocontract by 4.8% YoY due to the global economic recession and geopolitical conflicts which have broad impact on the global supply chain. Key industries that caused the contraction were computer and peripherals, furniture, and structural steel, whereas key industries that are expected to expand well in 2023 were automobiles, and sugar.
MPI for key industries for the year 2024 is expected to grow by 2.0-3.0%. Supporting factors are: 1) Thailand's trade with major trading partners is likely to gradually recover; (2) Major economies are likely to delay raising interest rates; (3) Tourism and service sectors have a tendency to expand; (4) Private sector investment is likely to continue expanding; and (5) Government continues to implement economic stimulus measures.
Title: Memorandum of Understanding on establishment of a bilateral consultation mechanism between Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Foreign Affairs:
Approved the draft MOU on establishment of a bilateral consultation mechanism between Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national intertest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet
Approved for Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs or a representative as signatory of the MOU.
Gist
The MOU on establishment of a bilateral consultation mechanism between Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic is aimed as a tangible consultation mechanism between Thailand and Greece with regard to reviewing, expanding and strengthening cooperation, as well as exchanging views, on regional and international issues of mutual interest.
Title: Memorandum of Understanding on political consultations between Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Azerbaijan
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Foreign Affairs:
Approved the draft MOU on political consultations between Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Azerbaijan. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national intertest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet
Approved for Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs or a representative as signatory of the MOU.
Gist
The MOU on political consultations between Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Azerbaijan is aimed to further strengthen friendship and bilateral relations and cooperation in political, legal, economic, consular, scientific, academic, educational and cultural agendas.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/77566