รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on December 24, 2024. 


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 26 ธันวาคม 2567
26/12/2567
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on December 24, 2024.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on Revocation of Public Domain Land for People’s Common Use in ​​Mai Rut Subdistrict, Khlong Yai District, Trat Province, B.E. ....
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Royal Decree on Revocation of Public Domain Land for People’s Common Use in Mai Rut Subdistrict, Khlong Yai District, Trat Province, B.E. ...., which was proposed by Ministry of Interior and scrutinized by Office of Council of State. Opinions of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment and the National Economic and Social Development Council shall also be taken into consideration.
Gist
The draft Royal Decree on Revocation of Public Domain Land for People’s Common Use in Mai Rut Subdistrict, Khlong Yai District, Trat Province, B.E. .... prescribes revocation of “Khlong Chedi Beach Land for Public Use” in Mai Rut Subdistrict, Khlong Yai District, Trat Province (36 rai 1 ngan 61 square wah), which is discontinued utilizing. The land is to be used for the implementation of waste management and organic fuel and fertilizer production by Mai Rut Subdistrict Administrative Organization.
Title: Request for use of watershed area, class 1A, in Mae Ramat National Forest Reserve, Mae Sot District, Tak Province for the building of Wat Doi Phu Kalang
The cabinet approved the use of watershed area, class 1A, in Mae Ramat National Forest Reserve, Mae Sot District, Tak Province (14 rai 3 ngan 21 square wah) for the building of Wat Doi Phu Kalang, as proposed by National Office of Buddhism.
Gist
Wat Doi Phu Kalang has to be constructed over the watershed area, class 1A, in Mae Ramat National Forest Reserve, Mae Sot District, Tak Province. The total area of 14 rai 3 ngan 21 square must be used for the construction.
Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, Ministry of Interior, and Ministry of Culture have approved the construction on condition that the construction must strictly be carried out within the approved area with no further expansion to ensure the least impact on the Class 1A watershed area. Implementation of related activities must be supervised to strictly comply with proposed measures stipulated in the project’s Environmental Accounting Report (EAR).
Title: Adoption of Political Declaration on Strengthening the Protection of Civilians from the Humanitarian Consequences of the Use of Explosive Weapons in Densely Populated Areas
The cabinet approved for Thailand, through Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to adopt the Political Declaration on Strengthening the Protection of Civilians from the Humanitarian Consequences of the Use of Explosive Weapons in Densely Populated Areas, and ordered concerned agencies to proceed accordingly. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
Thailand’s adoption of the Political Declaration on Strengthening the Protection of Civilians from the Humanitarian Consequences of the Use of Explosive Weapons in Densely Populated Areas demonstrates the country’s position and reaffirm its commitment to upholding humanitarian principles and adherence to international humanitarian law. It also enhances the security of its people and promotes Thailand's military measures to be internationally recognized.
Title: Thailand’s acceptance of invitation to become BRICS Partner Country
The cabinet acknowledged the proposal of Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) regarding Thailand’s acceptance letter of the invitation to become BRICS Partner Country. The Ministry shall later notify the Russian Federation of Thailand’s acceptance.
Gist
Joining BRICS as a partner country is a development towards full membership and will promote interactions between Thailand and BRICS, a group of countries with high economic potential. This will also benefit cooperation in trade, investment, tourism, energy and food security, as well as exchanging knowledge in education, science, technology and innovation. Becoming BRICS partner country will increase Thailand's role in promoting South-South Cooperation, strengthen multilateralism, and enhance Thailand's role as a bridge builder between BRICS and other countries.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/91773