รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM orders beefing up of security for tourists as number of foreign travelers continues on the rise


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 8 ธันวาคม 2565
พิมพ์
PM orders beefing up of security for tourists as number of foreign travelers continues on the rise
PM orders beefing up of security for tourists as number of foreign travelers continues on the rise
December 8, 2022, Deputy Government Spokesperson Traisuree Taisaranakul disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha has closely followed up with Thailand’s tourism situation, which shows an upward trend of incoming foreign tourists. He also instructed concerned agencies, i.e., Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Public Health, Ministry of tourism and Sports, Ministry of Interior, and the Royal Thai Police, as well as tourism business operators, to beef up security measures in all places and ensure public health safety.
According to the report of Ministry of tourism and Sports, as of the end of November 2022, or the first 11 months of the year, 9.09 million foreign travelers have visited Thailand, 1.73 million of whom is recorded in November only. The Government is certain that the total number of foreign tourists in 2022 would soon break the target of 10 million. Ensuring safety of both Thai and foreign tourists, who have chosen Thailand as one of their first tourism destinations after the ease of COVID-19 pandemic, is, therefore, very important to maintain their confidence in traveling in the country.
Based on several polls and information related to international tourism, a number of Thailand’s attractions and provinces have been in the top ranks among the world’s popular tourist attractions. The latest is CNBC’s report on the survey of more than 12,000 respondents from InterNations, an online expat community with more than 4.5 million global members, on top cities to live and work abroad, according to which Bangkok ranks 6th.
The top cities to live and work abroad in 2022, according to the survey, are: 1. Valencia, Spain; 2. Dubai, United Arab Emirates; 3. Mexico City, Mexico; 4. Lisbon, Portugal; 5. Madrid, Spain; 6. Bangkok, Thailand; 7) Basel, Switzerland; 8) Melbourne, Australia; 9) Abud Abi, UAE; and 10) Singapore.
The survey found that 79% of respondents are happy with life in general in Thailand, while 69% are happy with the cost of living, 54% say making new friends is easy, 66% are happy with their job, 68% are happy with their work-life balance, and 82% are happy with the quality of medical care.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/62444