รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Education sandbox approved in Bangkok and other 10 provinces


วันพุธที่ 30 พฤศจิกายน 2565
พิมพ์
Education sandbox approved in Bangkok and other 10 provinces
Education sandbox approved in Bangkok and other 10 provinces
November 29, 2022, Deputy Government Spokesperson Ratchada Thanadirek disclosed that the cabinet, in its meeting today, approved the implementation of education sandbox scheme in Bangkok and other 10 provinces, namely, Sukhothai, Mae Hongson, Krabi, Trat, Sakaeo, Chanthaburi, Phuket, Songkhla, Surat Thani, and Ubon Ratchathani. There are altogether 538 pilot schools participating in the education sandbox scheme, of which the aims are: 1) developing education and learning innovation to ensure learners’ educational achievement; 2) reducing educational disparity; 3) granting more freedom and authority to educational institutions and pilot schools; and 4) creating and developing mechanisms for joint education management between the public sectors, local government, and local civil society.
Detail on education sandbox of each province is as follows:
1. Bangkok: 54 pilot schools. Operational direction includes: 1) developing innovation to ensure achievement through improving curriculum framework and teacher training; 2) granting more freedom to schools in setting their own personnel and budget management direction; and 3) establishing an educational network for children's learning management in Bangkok
2. Sukhothai: 20 pilot schools. Working together with the Equitable Education Fund (EEF) in promoting area-based education to reduce educational disparity, especially among the underprivileged children.
3. Mae Hongson: 19 pilot schools. Communities joining forces to elevate education quality, solve the problem of teacher and school administrator shortage, and support underprivileged children and learners of various ethnicities.
4. Krabi: 38 pilot schools. Encouraging learners to be aware of their interest and the field study they want to pursue, in line with labor market demand in respective areas
5. Trat: 22 pilot schools. Promoting integrated management of learning and teaching
6. Sakaeo: 30 pilot schools. Prioritizing the development of educational curriculum and enhancing academic, life, and professional skills of students to reduce inequality
7. Chanthaburi: 28 pilot schools. Relaxing regulations, focusing on reducing educational disparity
8. Phuket: 32 pilot schools. Creating education management system that is relevant with local problems and needs, e.g., promoting students’ language skills and solving the problem of inequality
9. Songkhla: 13 pilot schools.
10. Surat Thani: 21 schools. Elevating academic achievement and promoting equal education for learners of all ages. Helping dropout and troubled children to enter education system
11. Ubon Ratchathani: 261 schools. Developing learner-based curriculum in accordance with local context and capacity

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/62136