รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand proposes 3 approaches as roadmap to steer forward ASEAN Community


วันศุกร์ที่ 11 พฤศจิกายน 2565
Thailand proposes 3 approaches as roadmap to steer forward ASEAN Community
Thailand proposes 3 approaches as roadmap to steer forward ASEAN Community
November 11, 2022, at 0800hrs, at the Ballroom I and Ballroom II, Sokha Hotel, Phnome Penh, Cambodia, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha attended the opening session of the 40th and 41st ASEAN Summits, and the launch of photo exhibition and the book titled “Cambodia’s Contribution to ASEAN”.
Later at 0850hrs, the Prime Minister, together with leaders of the 9 ASEAN member countries (except Myanmar), and ASEAN Secretary-General, attended plenary session of the 40th ASEAN Summit to discuss strengthening of the ASEAN Community, and policy and direction setting toward the future. Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister thanked and commended Cambodia for its role as ASEAN chair, and congratulated tangible success of Cambodia’s various initiatives, i.e., COVID-19 response and post-pandemic recovery, and the development progress of the Post-2025 Vision.
Thailand is proud of the development of ASEAN into a strong community with its emergence as the 5th largest economic community of the world. The Prime Minister also proposed 3 approaches as roadmap to steer forward the ASEAN Community, and to tackle multidimensional challenges:
First is strengthening the present through implementing the ASEAN Comprehensive Recovery Framework. The Prime Minister congratulated the progress of ASEAN Centre for Public Health Emergencies and Emerging Diseases (ACPHEED) establishment. Thailand, as host of the ACPHEED Secretariat Office, stands ready to work closely together with Indonesia and Vietnam to ensure efficiency of ACPHEED operation in response to public health emergencies. The Prime Minister also emphasized an importance to expedite regional economic integration and reinforcement of economic relations with ASEAN’s partners.
Thailand has presented its bid to host ‘World Specialized Expo 2028’ in Phuket under the theme: “Future of Life: Living in Harmony, Sharing Prosperity”, which will also highlight solutions to the problems related to social disparity, public health, and environment. Should the bid be successful, Thailand will be Southeast Asia's first to host an international Expo, which will help promote ASEAN’s socio-economic dynamism. Thus, the country hopes to be supported by other ASEAN member countries in this endeavor.
Second is joining force toward the future to drive forward sustainable agenda as ASEAN’s key strategy for promotion of sustainability in all dimensions. The Prime Minister expressed hope that ASEAN’s Post-2025 Vision reflects ASEAN’s future operational sustainability, taking into account world’s major changes. Innovation should be promoted and maximized to create economic and social development that emphasizes balance and sustainability.
Third is respecting the ASEAN Way. Throughout the past 55 years, the ASEAN Community has come this far thanks to ASEAN’s close collaboration while adhering to the “ASEAN Way”. Amidst geopolitical uncertainty and volatility, Thailand views that in order for the ASEAN region to grow and move ahead, the ASEAN Way must be respected and adhered to. Thailand stands ready to strengthen ASEAN’s institutions and organizations, and enhance ASEAN’s operational efficiency in response to obstacles and challenges on the basis of shared principle and practice.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/61521