รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM emphasizes strengthening of ASEAN-led mechanisms at 41st ASEAN Summit (retreat session)


วันศุกร์ที่ 11 พฤศจิกายน 2565
พิมพ์
PM emphasizes strengthening of ASEAN-led mechanisms at 41st ASEAN Summit (retreat session)
PM emphasizes strengthening of ASEAN-led mechanisms at 41st ASEAN Summit (retreat session)
November 11, 2022, at 1030hrs, at the Ballroom I and Ballroom II, Sokha Hotel, Phnome Penh, Cambodia, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha attended the 41st ASEAN Summit (retreat session), which was attended by leaders of the 9 ASEAN member countries (except Myanmar) and ASEAN Secretary-General. Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
At the 41st ASEAN Summit (retreat session), the Prime Minister proposed 2 key points that ASEAN should undertake concurrently amidst ongoing global challenges:
First is strengthening ASEAN-led mechanisms through leveraging capacity and synergizing operation of each mechanism to promote ASEAN’s centrality, and maintain ASEAN’s strategic value in the ASEAN-centered regional architecture.
Second is further enhancing relations with Dialogue Partners and other external partners on the basis of mutual trust, mutual respect, and mutual benefit. ASEAN should maintain balanced relations for regional security and stability.
ASEAN may take part in the regional and international situation by utilizing ASEAN’s convening power to bring all concerned parties together and engage in fruitful discussions. In addition to the ASEAN related Summits this week, Indonesia will host G20 and Thailand APEC next week, where the key actors on this matter will attend. ASEAN must utilize this opportunity to encourage constructive engagement among them.
The Prime Minister was of the view that ASEAN’s role in the Myanmar situation is extremely important and crucial. Everyone wants to see peace and stability in Myanmar for the benefit of Myanmar people and the ASEAN Community. All parties need to work together to deliver humanitarian assistance to those in need in Myanmar. As a neighbor sharing border with Myanmar, Thailand is ready to support and cooperate with ASEAN and the international community to provide humanitarian assistance to the people of Myanmar.
In closing, the Prime Minister congratulated Cambodia for the successful chairmanship this year. Thailand is also ready to support Indonesia’s chairmanship next year to further strengthen the ASEAN Community.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/61526