รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on August 6, 2024.


วันศุกร์ที่ 16 สิงหาคม 2567
16/08/2567
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on August 6, 2024.
The cabinet met on August 6, 2024.
The cabinet met on August 6, 2024. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Act on Expropriation of Immovable Property for Public Transportation Enterprise (MRT Chaloem Ratchamongkhon Line Project, Hua Lamphong - Bang Khae Section), in the areas of Bangkok Yai, Phasi Charoen, and Bang Khae Districts, Bangkok, B.E. ....; Draft Act to Determine Burden on Immovable Property for Public Transportation Enterprise (MRT Chaloem Ratchamongkhon Line Project, Hua Lamphong - Bang Khae Section), in the areas of Pom Prap Sattru Phai, Samphanthawong, Phra Nakhon, Thon Buri and Bangkok Yai Districts, Bangkok, B.E. ....; Draft Act on Expropriation of Immovable Property for Public Transportation Enterprise (MRT Chaloem Ratchamongkhon Line, Bang Sue - Tha Phra Section), in the areas of Bang Phlat, Bangkok Noi, and Bangkok Yai Districts, Bangkok, B.E. ....; and Draft Act to Determine Burden on Immovable Property for Public Transportation Enterprise (MRT Chaloem Ratchamongkhon Line Project, Bang Sue - Tha Phra Section), in the areas of Bang Phlat and Bangkok Noi Districts, Bangkok, B.E. ....
The cabinet approved in principle the following 4 draft Acts as proposed by Ministry of Transport:
1. Draft Act on Expropriation of Immovable Property for Public Transportation Enterprise (MRT Chaloem Ratchamongkhon Line Project, Hua Lamphong - Bang Khae Section), in the areas of Bangkok Yai, Phasi Charoen, and Bang Khae Districts, Bangkok, B.E. ....
2. Draft Act to Determine Burden on Immovable Property for Public Transportation Enterprise (MRT Chaloem Ratchamongkhon Line Project, Hua Lamphong - Bang Khae Section), in the areas of Pom Prap Sattru Phai, Samphanthawong, Phra Nakhon, Thon Buri and Bangkok Yai Districts, Bangkok, B.E. ....
3. Draft Act on Expropriation of Immovable Property for Public Transportation Enterprise (MRT Chaloem Ratchamongkhon Line, Bang Sue - Tha Phra Section), in the areas of Bang Phlat, Bangkok Noi, and Bangkok Yai Districts, Bangkok, B.E. ....
4. Draft Act to Determine Burden on Immovable Property for Public Transportation Enterprise (MRT Chaloem Ratchamongkhon Line Project, Bang Sue - Tha Phra Section), in the areas of Bang Phlat and Bangkok Noi Districts, Bangkok, B.E. ....
The draft bills are proposed in accordance with Section 28 (1) of the Expropriation and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, B.E. 2562 (2019); Section 35 (1) of the Mass Rapid Transit Authority of Thailand Act, B.E. 2543 (2000); and Section 20 of the Procurement of Immovable Property for Public Transportation Enterprises Act, B.E. 2540 (1997). Relevant agencies have agreed with the 4 bills. Office of National Economic and Social Development Council further opines that the Mass Rapid Transit Authority of Thailand should expedite negotiations with the landowners to be concluded within the timeframes of the enforcement of the said laws.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for electrolytic zinc-coated flat steel, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for electrolytic zinc-coated flat steel, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for electrolytic zinc-coated flat steel, B.E. …, prescribes Thai Industrial Standard for electrolytic zinc-coated flat steel under TIS 2223-2565, to be in accordance with the Ministerial Announcement No. 2275 (B.E. 2566), issued under the Industrial Product Standards Act, B.E. 2511, on Withdrawal and Prescription of Thai Industrial Standard for electrolytic zinc-coated flat steel.
The draft Ministerial Regulation shall take effect 180 days after being announced in the Royal Gazette.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for quenched and tempered wire for prestressed concrete, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for quenched and tempered wire for prestressed concrete, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for quenched and tempered wire for prestressed concrete, B.E. …, prescribes Thai Industrial Standard for quenched and tempered wire for prestressed concrete under TIS 3286 – 2564, to be in accordance with the Ministerial Announcement No. 6991 (B.E. 2566), issued under the Industrial Product Standards Act, B.E. 2511, on Withdrawal and Prescription of Thai Industrial Standard for quenched and tempered wire for prestressed concrete.
The draft Ministerial Regulation shall take effect 180 days after being announced in the Royal Gazette.
Title: Write off of bad debts of Koh Lanta Fisheries Cooperative Limited under the “Debt relief program through the write-off of bad debts for Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives’ funds”
The cabinet approved the write off of bad debts of Koh Lanta Fisheries Cooperative Limited under the “Debt relief program through the write-off of bad debts for Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives’ funds” for the total amount of 5.93 million Baht (principal of 2.5 million Baht and outstanding interest of 3.43 million Baht). This is as proposed by the Cooperative Promotion Department
Gist
The reason behind this proposal is that early 1996 severe shrimp disease outbroke and badly affected Koh Lanta Fisheries Cooperative Limited’s shrimp farming, as a result of which it was unable to pay off debts and subsequently ceased its operation.
Title: Tourism quick-wins to boost entire economic system during the low season
The cabinet acknowledged the Ministry of Tourism and Sports’ quick-wins to boost the entire economic system during the low season, and tourism marketing in provincial clusters through the organization of “Thai Charm” events, using the central budget for contingencies and emergencies of 433,199,300 Baht. This is as proposed by Ministry of Tourism and Sports.
Gist
With the approval, Tourism Authority of Thailand will implement quick-wins to boost entire economic system during the low season. The two projects/activities to be implemented are:
1. Thai tourism marketing on online platforms (Budget: 280,000,000 Baht)
2. Organization of “Thai Charm” events/activities (Budget: 433,199,300 Baht)
a. Chiang Mai Art and Music Festival (Chiang Mai)
b. The River of Time (Kanchanaburi)
c. Chonburi International Music Festival in the Rain (Chonburi)
d. Khanom Mindfulness Territory (Nakhon Si Thammarat)
e. Joyful Esan (Khon Kaen)
Title: Contributions to the AHA Centre Fund
The cabinet approved Thailand’s contributions to the AHA Centre Fund during 2024-2025 for the total amount of USD90,000/year (approx. 3.3 million Baht). This is as proposed by Ministry of Interior.
Gist
Thailand signed the ASEAN Agreement on Disaster Management and Emergency Response (AADMER), which came into effect on December 24, 2009. The AHA Centre has been established under the Agreement on the Establishment of the Coordinating Centre for Humanitarian Assistance on Disaster Management (AHA Centre Agreement). Thailand’s contribution to the AHA Centre Fund will further strengthen ASEAN disaster management cooperation, and support the realization of the One ASEAN, One Response vision.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/87175