รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM acknowledges World Bank report and recommendations on “Thailand Public Revenue and Spending Assessment Promoting an Inclusive and Sustainable Future”


วันศุกร์ที่ 9 มิถุนายน 2566
09/06/2566
พิมพ์
PM acknowledges World Bank report and recommendations on “Thailand Public Revenue and Spending Assessment Promoting an Inclusive and Sustainable Future”
PM acknowledges World Bank report and recommendations on “Thailand Public Revenue and Spending Assessment Promoting an Inclusive and Sustainable Future”
June 9, 2023, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha acknowledged a World Bank report titled “Thailand Public Revenue and Spending Assessment Promoting an Inclusive and Sustainable Future”, as revealed by Ministry of Finance.
According to the report, COVID-19 hit Thailand during a period in which economic growth had slowed. In 2020, the economy contracted by 6.2% due to the cessation of international tourism, the impact of domestic mobility restrictions, and a deterioration in external demand. Nevertheless, Thailand returned to pre-pandemic levels of output in the 3rd quarter of 2022.
The World Bank also reported that Thailand’s financial and fiscal measures have significantly contributed to the country’s economic recovery, compared to peers. Three phases of fiscal stimulus, totaling 1.56 trillion Baht were organized around 3 themes, that is, health; relief (financial aid and cash handouts); and economic restoration and recovery. Significant resources were allocated to income support measures, including cash transfers and subsidies for vulnerable households, informal workers, and farmers. A relatively large proportion of the total package was allocated to SMEs, to be provided via soft loans from state-owned banks. Thailand’s health-related measures were also slightly larger than peers.
The World Bank recommends that Thailand needs to address growing spending needs, and that increasing spending on social assistance, education, and climate adaptation is a near-term priority, and a means of reducing poverty and inequality and helping households cope with risk. Spending in these areas has a significant impact on human capital and economic resilience. The Thai Government needs to maintain a sustainable public debt position through an increase in public revenues. The report recommends a series of progressive tax reforms that could collectively increase revenues, which include raising the VAT rate and removing exemptions, broadening the personal income tax base, and streamlining allowances and deductions, and expanding property tax collection.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Prime Minister was pleased with the World Bank’s report and recommendations. The Thai Government would take these recommendations into consideration for an improvement of related policies and measures toward national development and economic growth.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/69100