รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Department of Employment  confirms that employers are still able to employ Lao and Cambodian workers.


วันศุกร์ที่ 9 มิถุนายน 2566
09/06/2566
พิมพ์
Department of Employment  confirms that employers are still able to employ Lao and Cambodian workers.
Director-General of the Department of Employment reaffirms that after 1 June 2023, Thai employers can still employ Laos, Cambodian, and Myanmar workers
only the venue for submitting the requests to recruit foreign workers under the MoU is revised for the convenience of employers.
Mr. Phairoj Chotikasatien, Director-General of the Department of Employment, pointed out that there has been a misunderstanding among social media users regarding the process of submitting the demand to employ foreign workers of Cambodian, Lao, and Myanmar nationalities. The claim that Thailand will no longer allow the employment of foreign workers from 1 June 2023 onwards is untrue. The Department of Employment wishes to reaffirm that from 1 June 2023 onwards, employers or business owners who wish to recruit foreign workers under the MoUs between Thailand and source countries can still submit their demands. For Cambodian and Laos workers, employers are requested to submit their demands at Provincial Employment Offices and Bangkok Employment Office Areas 1-10 in their locations, not at the Department of Employment (Central Office). For Myanmar workers, employers are requested to continue to submit their demands at the Department of Employment (Central Office).
“Since the Covid-19 situation has now improved, the Department of Employment has revised the steps of submitting the demand to employ foreign workers in order to speed up the process and make it more convenient for employers and business owners. However, the process for Myanmar workers is to remain the same as authorities on the Myanmar side require that the demands sent to the Department of Labour of Myanmar are signed by the Director-General of the Department of Employment,” said the Director-General of the Department of Employment.
Employers, business owners, and foreign workers can inquire further details at all Provincial Employment Offices and Bangkok Employment Office Areas 1-10, or at the Ministry of Labour Hotline 1506 Ext. 2 for the Department of Employment.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/69069