รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Govt to promote upskilling/reskilling of workers in all areas necessary to meet overseas market demand


วันอังคารที่ 2 พฤษภาคม 2566
02/05/2566
พิมพ์
Govt to promote upskilling/reskilling of workers in all areas necessary to meet overseas market demand
Govt to promote upskilling/reskilling of workers in all areas
necessary to meet overseas market demand
May 1, 2023, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government
Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that the Government strives to continue
implementing human resource development and capacity building in a bid to stimulate
economy, enhance national competitiveness, and generate more revenues. Prime Minister and
Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha handed down a policy for the development, upskilling,
and reskilling of Thai workers who are the nation’s key human resources, and who have greatly
contributed to socio-economic security and sustainability.
Several countries, such as Japan, have entered an ageing society, as a result of which, labor
shortage has become a big challenge. It is, therefore, a good opportunity for Thai labor to look
into employment opportunity in Japan especially after the COVID-19 pandemic. In the fiscal
year 2023, Thai labor authority aims to send 50,000 Thai workers overseas, while during 2022-
2023, Thailand has exported more than 100,000 Thai workers, generating the income of
299,077 million Baht. Based on the Department of Employment&#39;s data, Japan has set the target
to import at least 300,000-400,000 “specified skilled workers (SSW)” within the next 5 years
from 9 countries, namely, China, Vietnam, Thailand, Cambodia, Myanmar, Indonesia, Nepal,
Philippines, and Mongolia, especially in the fields of manufacturing and construction (e.g.,
welding, metal casting, metal stamping, plastic casting, machinery, lathe work, construction
work, etc.)
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Government strives to promote human
resource development and upskilling/reskilling of workers in all areas necessary, including
language efficiency. Workers are also encouraged to switch jobs and elevate professional skills
according to overseas market demand in S-curve industries and technologies in a bid to
increase revenue and productivity in the long run. In doing so, not only their livelihood and
knowledge will be upgraded, national economic and social development will also be promoted in
a balanced and sustainable manner.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/67841