รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with Cambodian PM on introductory visit to Cambodia


วันศุกร์ที่ 29 กันยายน 2566
29/09/2566
พิมพ์
PM meets with Cambodian PM on introductory visit to Cambodia
PM meets with Cambodian PM on introductory visit to Cambodia
September 28, 2023, at 1030hrs, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin and the delegation arrived at Phnom Penh International Airport, Phnom Penh, Kingdom of Cambodia, on his first introductory visit to the country. At the Cambodia’s Prime Minister Office, he took part in the official welcoming ceremony before having a bilateral meeting with H.E. Samdech Moha Borvor Thipadei Hun Manet, Prime Minister of Cambodia at 1100hrs. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
Both the Prime Minister first congratulated each other for their assumption of the position. With close and cordial friendship, this is the right time to open a new chapter of stronger partnership between Thailand and Cambodia and an elevation to strategic partnership. The Thai Prime Minister took the opportunity to invite the Cambodian counterpart to visit Thailand.
The two leaders also discussed issues of mutual interest:
The Thai and Cambodian Prime Ministers came to terms to further reinforce economic cooperation, especially promotion of trade and investment, tourism, border development, new economic sectors, digital economy, green economy, and business networking, and upgrade of border crossing points. They also agreed to increase mutual trade volume to USD15 billion by 2025, and expedite the opening of Thailand - Cambodia Friendship Bridge (Ban Nong Ian-Stung Bot) to promote cross-border transport and logistics.
On tourism, the Thai Prime Minister proposed an increase of cooperation in medical and healthcare tourism, and called for Cambodia to grant temporary land transport border pass to promote border tourism. The two leaders also endorsed an increase in investment, supply chain connection enhancement, and business matching between Thailand and Cambodia, especially among SMEs and new generation entrepreneurs.
With regard to security cooperation, the Prime Minister proposed for Cambodia to host the next Joint Boundary Committee (JBC) with an aim to upgrade border crossing points and increase border trade. Thailand also called for an increase of border demining cooperation for people’s safety and for further development of border trade. The Prime Minister emphasized that it is important for concerned agencies of the two countries to translate outcomes of the meeting into concrete action, and later report to both the Prime Ministers.
The Thai Prime Minister also proposed regular exchange of visits between security agencies of the two countries at all levels to tighten cooperation against transnational crimes and call center scams.
Toward the end of the meeting, the Prime Minister underscored the strong development partnership between Thailand and Cambodia, especially in education, human resource development, and sustainable development. Thailand also stands ready to work closely together with the Cambodian counterpart on tracing and suppressing spread of fake news to promptly prevent public misunderstanding.
After the meeting, the Prime Ministers, together with the Cambodian Prime Minister, witnessed the symbolic handover of the Migrant Rehabilitation Center, located in Poipet, Banteay Meanchey Province, before attending the luncheon hosted by the Cambodian Prime Minister in honor of the Thai Prime Minister.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/72737