รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM meets with Lord Powell of Bayswater KCMG of United Kingdom


วันเสาร์ที่ 10 ธันวาคม 2565
พิมพ์
​PM meets with Lord Powell of Bayswater KCMG of United Kingdom
​PM meets with Lord Powell of Bayswater KCMG of United Kingdom
December 8, 2022, at 11.00 hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Lord Powell of Bayswater KCMG, member of the House of Lords, United Kingdom, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha. Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure to meet with Lord Powell of Bayswater, whom he has earlier met in several occasions, and commended long-standing and cordial relations between Thailand and United Kingdom. He also conveyed felicitations toward King Charles III, and expressed profound condolences over the passing of Queen Elizabeth II, who was deeply revered by the Thai people.
Lord Powell of Bayswater thanked the Prime Minister for the warm welcome as always, and congratulated the success of Thailand’s hosting of the 29th APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting. The Prime Minister was praised for the capability to liaise, manage, and administer the meeting in an efficient manner despite the current tensions and challenges. He also recognized the Thai Government’s effective response to COVID-19 pandemic which has boosted confidence of and drawn an increasing number of UK travelers to Thailand.
Both parties came to terms that there are potentials for Thailand and UK to further tighten economic cooperation. The Prime Minister underscored the Thai Government’s policy to promote digital economy and sustainable economic recovery and growth to becoming a low-carbon society driven by the BCG economic model, which is in line with UK’s Ten Point Plan for Green Industrial Revolution. Thailand and UK may also exchange knowledge and good practices for sustainable economic recovery. The Prime Minister took the opportunity to extend his invitation for UK businessmen to invest in the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC) in the fields of their expertise, which include EV production, and consider Thailand as their production base.
The Prime Minister also called on the UK to consider reduction of import duties for Thailand’s eco-friendly goods, and tangible development of FTA between the two countries through existing bilateral cooperation mechanisms, i.e., Strategic Dialogue Meeting, and JETCO. He also encouraged UK investors to take most advantage of Thailand’s reduction of tariff rates for environmental goods implemented under the APEC framework.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/62541