รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand – China sign 14 Agreements and MoUs


วันจันทร์ที่ 10 กุมภาพันธ์ 2568
10/02/2568
พิมพ์
Thailand – China sign 14 Agreements and MoUs
Thailand – China sign 14 Agreements and MoUs
Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed that on February 6, 2025, at 1745hrs (Beijing local time), at the Great Hall of the People, Beijing, People’s Republic of China, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra and Chinese Prime Minister Li Qiang witnessed the adoption and signing of 14 Agreements and MoUs between Thailand and China.
The 14 documents are as follows:
1. Joint Statement between the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Government of the People’s Republic of China on Advancing the Comprehensive Strategic Cooperative Partnership and Building a Thailand-China Community with a Shared Future for Enhanced Stability, Prosperity, and Sustainability through a Forward-looking and People-Centered Vision (No signing)
2. Memorandum of Understanding on Promotion of Cooperation in Artificial Intelligence between Ministry of Digital Economy and Society of the Kingdom of Thailand and National Development and Reform Commission of People's Republic of China
3. Memorandum of Understanding on Exchanges and Cooperation in Economic Development between National Economic and Social Development Council and National Development and Reform Commission of China
4. Memorandum of Understanding on Promotion of Cooperation in Green Development Investment between Ministry of Energy of the Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Commerce of the People's Republic of China
5. Memorandum of Understanding on Promotion of Digital Economy Investment between Office of the Eastern Economic Corridor Policy Committee and Ministry of Commerce of People's Republic of China
6. Protocol on Criteria for Inspection, Quarantine and Veterinary Sanitation of Aquacultured Fish Products Exported to the People's Republic of China between Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives of the Kingdom of Thailand and General Administration of Customs of the People's Republic of China
7. Framework Agreement on One-Stop Electronic Data Linkage System for Cross-Border Trade between Customs Department of the Kingdom of Thailand and General Administration of Customs of the People's Republic of China
8. Agreement between Customs Department of the Kingdom of Thailand and General Administration of Customs of the People's Republic of China on Mutual Recognition Agreement for AEO Standard Entrepreneurship Program and China’s Enterprise Credit Management Program
9. Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in Establishment of Joint Laboratory on Artificial Intelligence between Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation of the Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Science and Technology of the People's Republic of China
10. Memorandum of Understanding between Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation and the China National Space Administration on Moon-Aiming Thai-Chinese Hodoscope (MATCH) under the Chang'e 7 Mission
11. Memorandum of Understanding between Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation and China Atomic Energy Authority on Cooperation in Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Technology
12. Memorandum of Understanding on Postal Services Cooperation between Ministry of Digital Economy and Society and China Post
13. Memorandum of Understanding on Exchange of News and Information between Public Relations Department and Xinhua News Agency
14. Memorandum of Understanding between Thai Public Broadcasting Service and China Media Group

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/93208