รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on May 6, 2025. 


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 15 พฤษภาคม 2568
15/05/2568
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on May 6, 2025.
The cabinet met on May 6, 2025.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on payment into fund for job seekers who seek employment abroad, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on payment into fund for job seekers who seek employment abroad, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Labor.
Gist
The Employment and Employment Protection Act, B.E. 2538 (1985) prescribes requirements for workers who seek employment abroad, foreign employers, and employment agencies to pay into the Fund to assist job seekers who seek employment abroad, for which conditions, rates of payment, and timeframe shall be in accordance with Ministerial Regulation No. 11 issued under provisions in the Employment and Employment Protection Act, B.E. 2538 (1985). However, Ministry of Labor is of the view that conditions, rates of payment, and timeframe for payment into the Fund to assist job seekers who seek employment abroad, as prescribed in Ministerial Regulation No. 11 are not up to date and irrelevant with the current situation. The Ministry, therefore, proposed the draft Ministerial Regulation on payment into fund for job seekers who seek employment abroad, B.E. … to revoke Ministerial Regulation No. 11, and set the flat rate of payment at 1,000 Baht in all cases. Payment may be made electronically.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation prescribing criteria and rate of compensation benefit in case of unemployment (No. …), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Ministerial Regulation prescribing criteria and rate of compensation benefit in case of unemployment (No. …), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Labor and deliberated by Office of Council of State. Ministry of Labor is also instructed to take the comments of Office of National Economic and Social Development Council into consideration.
Gist
At present, employees who are no longer insured under Section 33 of the Social Security Act, B.E. 2533 (1990) due to layoff are entitled to receive unemployment compensation in accordance with the Ministerial Regulation specifying criteria and rate of compensation benefit in case of unemployment, B.E. 2547 (2004) at a rate of 50% of daily wages, which may not be sufficient for their living expenses under the current economic situation. In order to alleviate the burden of the insured persons, the cabinet, therefore, approved an increase of compensation benefit rate due to layoff to 60% of daily wages for up to 180 days. Additional expenditure of approximately 1,035.40 million Baht per year is estimated from the increase in compensation benefit. However, Ministry of Labor affirmed that the increase would not affect stability of the Social Security Fund.
Title: “Amazing Thailand Grand Tourism & Sports Year 2025” campaign
The cabinet approved cooperation guidelines for the implementation of “Amazing Thailand Grand Tourism & Sports Year 2025” campaign, and assigned relevant public and private agencies to proceed accordingly. This is as proposed by Ministry of Tourism and Sports.
Gist
The campaign “Amazing Thailand Grand Tourism and Sports Year 2025” was proposed by the Tourism Policy Committee. The cabinet instructed all concerned agencies to proceed according to the campaign guidelines in a bid to promote tourism as an engine of growth for income generation and economic stimulation at the time of global economic volatility. Focus will be made on synergizing cooperation among partners of all sectors in 11 areas: 1) airlines; 2) hotels, accommodations, restaurants, tourist firms; 3) department stores and shops; 4) OTAs (Online Travel Agency); 5) mass transit system; 6) safety; 7) visa; 8) events; 9) tourist attractions; 10) publicity; and 11) others.
Title: Allocation of FY2025 central fund for emergency and contingency for restoration of transport infrastructure damaged by flood and other disasters
The cabinet approved the allocation of the Government’s FY2025 central fund for emergency and contingency, at the amount of 2,049.69 million Baht, to Ministry of Transport’s Department of Highway and Department of Rural Roads for the restoration of transport infrastructure damaged by floods and other disasters in 17 provinces. This is as proposed by Ministry of Transport.
Gist
Under the approved budget framework, the Department of Highway will be allocated 1,619.90 million Baht for the restoration of transport infrastructure damaged by floods and other disasters in Chiang Rai, Mae Hong Son, Chiang Mai, Phayao, Lampang, Phrae, Nan, Uttaradit, Tak, Sukhothai, Loei, Phuket, and Yala. Department of Rural Roads will be allocated 429.79 million Baht for the restoration of transport infrastructure damaged by floods and other disasters in Phitsanulok, Udon Thani, Nong Khai, and Kanchanaburi provinces.
Title: Designation of May as “Mind Month”
The cabinet approved a proposal of Ministry of Public Health to designate the month of May each year as the “Mind Month”, as proposed by Department of Mental Health, Ministry of Public Health.
Gist
Designation of May as “Mind Month” will be promoted under the concept of mental health being everyone's business. The Department of Mental Health will collaborate with its network institutions and organizations in 4 main agendas: 1) Stigma; 2) Awareness; 3) How to seek help; and 4) Safe Space.
Title: 7th APEC Human Resources Development Ministerial Meeting (HRDMM)
The cabinet approved the draft joint statement of the 7th APEC Human Resources Development Ministerial Meeting (HRDMM). Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against the principle approved by the cabinet, Ministry of Labor may proceed and report to the cabinet later. Minister of Labor or a representative is authorized to adopt the joint statement. This is as proposed by Ministry of Labor.
Gist
The 7th APEC Human Resources Development Ministerial Meeting (HRDMM) will be held during May 11-13, 2025, in the Republic of Korea, under the theme: “Sustainable Labor Markets and Jobs for the Future”. The joint statement is aimed at promoting inclusive and resilient labor markets, and transform labor markets in line with the new generation laborers. Discussion will be made on two issues: 1) Resilient and dynamic labor markets; and 2) Responses to future jobs through proactive labor market policies.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/96387