รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM meets with Chairman of Changan Automobile


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 15 พฤษภาคม 2568
15/05/2568
พิมพ์
​PM meets with Chairman of Changan Automobile
​PM meets with Chairman of Changan Automobile
May 14, 2025, at 1500hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Mr. Zhu Huarong, Chairman of Changan Automobile, and the delegation, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra. Attending the meeting was BOI Secretary General Narit Therdsteerasukdi. Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed Chairman of Changan Automobile and the delegation, and congratulated them on the opening of the company’s new EV manufacturing plant in Rayong province on May 16, the first right-hand drive EV manufacturing plant outside of China. She thanked Changan Automobile for its confidence in Thailand, and hoped that the company’s investment would boost Thailand’s role in the global supply chain for new-energy vehicles.
Chairman of Changan Automobile appreciated the meeting with the Prime Minister, and commended Thailand’s high security and environment conducive to foreign investments. He also thanked the Thai Government and relevant agencies, especially the BOI, for continuously supporting the company’s investment. With Thailand’s strategic location, infrastructure, the Government’s investment promotion measures and strategies, and, more importantly, long-standing relations between Thailand and China, Changan Automobile has planned for investment expansion in the future.
Both parties also discussed R&D investment expansion for right-hand-drive vehicles. The Prime Minister affirmed the Government’s priority placed on R&D promotion in all sectors in a bid to create new innovations and promote technology upgrades. Cooperation with big names in the global tech industries, i.e., Google, Microsoft, and TikTok, on R&D and human resource development has been closely forged, as the Thai Government strives to promote inclusive development, covering education, R&D, human resources, and innovation. The Prime Minister expressed hope that Thailand’s cooperation with Changan would greatly contribute to the development of automobile industry of both Thailand and China.
Chairman of Changan Automobile affirmed the company’s priority on R&D and human resource development at all levels, including Thai workers. Changan Automobile will consider establishing R&D center for right-hand-drive vehicles in Thailand and use more of the local materials and parts for its EV manufacturing.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/96412