รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand and Indonesia agree to promote post-COVID trade and investment cooperation


วันอาทิตย์ที่ 13 มิถุนายน 2564
พิมพ์
Thailand and Indonesia agree to promote post-COVID trade and investment cooperation
Thailand and Indonesia agree to promote post-COVID trade and investment cooperation
June 11, 2021, at 1330hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Rachmat Budiman, Ambassador of the Republic of Indonesia to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his assumption of the position. Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed the Indonesian Ambassador. Indonesia has been a close friend of Thailand with cordial relations and tight-knitted cooperation both at the regional and international levels. With the knowledge and experiences of the Ambassador, the Prime Minister hopes that relations and cooperation between the two countries would be deepened in all dimensions. The Prime Minister also conveyed his regards to the Indonesian President and spouse, and thanked the Indonesian Government for its support on the repatriation of Thai citizens to Thailand during the COVID-19 situation.
The Indonesian Ambassador expressed pleasure to be tenured in Thailand, and affirmed his commitment to strengthen relations and cooperation, especially in post-COVID-19 economic rehabilitation, fishery, security, education, and cultural exchange, through bilateral mechanisms and under the ASEAN framework for the best interest of both countries.
Both parties also came to terms to take forward existing economic cooperation and expand trade and investment cooperation, as well as minimize trade obstacles in the areas of mutual interests, in a bid to rehabilitate economy of both countries. The Prime Minister affirmed the Thai Government’s commitment to support Thai investment in Indonesia, and called on the Indonesian counterpart to facilitate Thai investors in the country. The Indonesian Ambassador also expressed pleasure to promote Indonesian investment in Thailand.
Security cooperation was also discussed. Both the Prime Minister and the Ambassador hope that Thailand and Indonesia would continue to mobilize activities and cooperation, such as exchange of information, security and national defense trainings, anti-narcotics, etc., when COVID-19 situation eases. The Prime Minister also affirmed Thailand’s cooperation with Indonesia and ASEAN in addressing the Myanmar situation, and the country’s endorsement of ASEAN’s Five-​Point Consensus.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/42676