รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thai and Chinese PMs agree on promoting trade and investment cooperation, and infrastructure and supply chain connectivity


วันพุธที่ 25 ตุลาคม 2566
25/10/2566
พิมพ์
Thai and Chinese PMs agree on promoting trade and investment cooperation, and infrastructure and supply chain connectivity
Thai and Chinese PMs agree on promoting trade and investment cooperation, and infrastructure and supply chain connectivity
October 18, 2023, at 1735hrs (Beijing local time), at the Peony Hall, Diaoyutai State Guesthouse, Beijing, People’s Republic of China, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin had a bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Li Qiang of China. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister was pleased to visit China upon an invitation of the Chinese Prime Minister and thanked for the warm welcome. He also congratulated China’s successful hosting of the 3rd Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation (BRF) and the 19th Asian Games.
Both the Prime Ministers also discussed issues of mutual interest:
The two premiers affirmed tight-knitted relations and long-time friendship between Thailand and China, and came to terms on the regular exchange of high-level visits to further promote political understanding and mutual relations for the benefit of people of the two countries.
The Chinese Prime Minister reaffirmed his country’s intent to promote relations with Thailand as two communities with a shared future. The Thai Prime Minister extended his invitation for the Chinese counterpart to officially visit Thailand at a convenient opportunity.
On economic cooperation, Thailand and China commit to work together in fighting against all the global challenges through promoting trade and investment cooperation, and infrastructure and supply chain connectivity in a bid to revive each other’s economy and create resilience. The Prime Minister invited the Chinese private sector to invest in infrastructure development in Thailand, especially the Landbridge project. The Chinese Prime Minister agreed on the reinforcement of economic cooperation through promoting Chinese investment in Thailand and vice versa.
The Thai Prime Minister called on China's support for an import of Thai agro products through establishing an agro product inspection checkpoint at Guanlei Port, increasing rice import quota, and directly importing live cattle and cattle products from Thailand. Thailand stands ready to conform to Chinese veterinary quarantine regulations.
Both parties also agreed on connectivity promotion, especially China-Laos-Thailand railway project under  the framework of Thailand-Laos-China Connectivity Development Corridor, and logistics development to facilitate people’s travel and transport of goods, as well as to promote regional development.
On tourism cooperation, the Prime Minister expressed condolences over the death and injury of Chinese tourists during the violent incident at a Thai department store, and affirmed the Thai Government’s commitment to ensure safety of foreign tourists. He also mentioned the Government’s decision on visa exemption for Chinese tourists, and expressed hope that the Chinese counterpart would follow suit. The Chinese Prime Minister also stressed the importance of tourist safety.
On security cooperation, the Thai and Chinese Prime Ministers came to terms on suppression of transnational crimes, be it, call center scams, online gambling, human trafficking, and narcotics, which requires cooperation from neighboring countries. The two Prime Ministers also supported promotion of cultural exchange and people-to-people relations, especially youth and media education.
With regard to multilateral cooperation, the constructive role of both China and Thailand is endorsed under the subregional, regional, and international levels, i.e., the ASEAN-China and MLC frameworks, to promote global and regional peace and prosperity.
The two premiers also witnessed the signing of 6 documents:
Memorandum of Understanding between Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Thailand and National Development and Reform Commission of People's Republic of China on Cooperation Mechanism for Promotion of the Belt and Road Initiative
Memorandum of Understanding on digital economy cooperation between Ministry of Digital Economy and Society and China’s National Development and Reform Commission
Protocol on Phytosanitary Requirements for the Export of Fresh Passion Fruit from Thailand to China between Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Customs Office of the People's Republic of China
Action Plan on Cultural Cooperation between Ministry of Culture of the Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Culture and Tourism of the People's Republic of China (2023 - 2027)
Memorandum of Understanding on Film Cooperation between Ministry of Culture of the Kingdom of Thailand and State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television of the People’s Republic of China
Memorandum of understanding on cooperation in mass media and information between Public Relations Department and State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television of the People’s Republic of China
Both the Prime Ministers also acknowledged signing of Memorandum of understanding on cooperation promotion between Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Thailand and China Media Group.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/73718