รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM delivers statements at Retreat Session of 8th GMS Summit


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 7 พฤศจิกายน 2567
07/11/2567
พิมพ์
PM delivers statements at Retreat Session of 8th GMS Summit
PM delivers statements at Retreat Session of 8th GMS Summit
November 7, 2024, at 0830hrs (Kunming local time), at Yunnan Haigeng Convention Center, Yunnan, People’s Republic of China, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra delivered a statement at the 8th Greater Mekong Subregion (GMS) Summit: Retreat Session under the topic: “Innovation-driven Development”. Attending the session were Prime Ministers of China, Cambodia, Lao PDR, Myanmar, and Vietnam, and president of the Asian Development Bank (ADB).Government Spokesperson Jirayu Hungsub disclosed gist of her statement as follows:
The Prime Minister stated that innovation has consistently been at the forefront of mankind’s countless turning points transformative moments. The world has now entered the Fourth Industrial Revolution, where the virtual and physical worlds converge, and artificial intelligence and advanced technologies are improving the efficiency of manufacturing systems. The theme of Summit aptly states that we are gearing toward the innovation-driven development to build a better community, which aligns with the core principle of the GMS Program.
The Prime Minister took the opportunity to propose a development path centered around ‘Inclusive and Environmentally-Friendly Innovation’. Commitment shall be made on fostering green and inclusive innovations, with the goal of a resilient society and a sustainable future.
Firstly, Thailand integrates innovation promotion into its national policies and development plans at all levels. One of the key initiatives is the modernization of agricultural sector through a "market-driven, innovation-enhanced, income-boosting" approach. By utilizing technology in the agricultural practices, adding value to agricultural products, and stabilizing major crop prices, Thailand aims to uplift the livelihoods of farmers.
Secondly, Thailand is developing seamless cross-border financial technology through the ASEAN Payment Connectivity project. This project aims to facilitate cross-border QR codes payments, pave the way towards becoming digital economy, and waiving unnecessary fees, which will ultimately benefit GMS community.
Lastly, Thailand has always been encouraging Research and Development (R&D) activities, with the belief in the concept that R&D is the foundation for innovations and innovation will then enhance the economy and improve our society. The government has been supporting R&D in both public and private sectors through various measures including human resource development to create an enabling ecosystem for robust, efficient, and inclusive innovation-driven development.
In conclusion, the Prime Minister expressed confidence that the GMS Innovation Strategy 2030, which will be endorsed at this Summit Meeting, will effectively provide directions and focuses for enhancing the GMS's innovation capacity. Thailand reaffirmed commitment to working closely with GMS members to foster innovation and open new frontiers of possibilities. This is to drive economic growth, improve the quality of life, and reach common prosperity and sustainable future for the Greater Mekong Subregion.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/89961