รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM proposes 3Cs to build stronger and more prosperous GMS community


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 7 พฤศจิกายน 2567
07/11/2567
พิมพ์
PM proposes 3Cs to build stronger and more prosperous GMS community
PM proposes 3Cs to build stronger and more prosperous GMS community
November 7, 2024, at 1000hrs (Kunming local time), at Yunnan Haigeng Convention Center, Yunnan, People’s Republic of China, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra delivered a statement at the 8th Greater Mekong Subregion (GMS) Summit (Plenary Session). Attending the session were Prime Ministers of China, Cambodia, Lao PDR, Myanmar, and Vietnam, and president of the Asian Development Bank (ADB). Government Spokesperson Jirayu Hungsub disclosed gist of her statement as follows:
The Prime Minister extended sincere appreciation to the People’s Republic of China for convening the 8th GMS Summit meeting, and expressed her honor to attend this important gathering alongside GMS colleagues and our long-standing development partners. Today’s meeting marked as a significant milestone in the GMS journey, this Summit not only symbolizes collective commitment to regional cooperation but also showcases resilience in the face of global challenges.
The Summit’s theme “Toward a Better Community Through Innovation-driven Development” is both timely and inspiring. By harnessing innovation and technology, we can unlock new opportunities for growth and common prosperity while improving the lives of people across the GMS. On this occasion, the Prime Minister reiterated Thailand’s commitment on building a stronger and more prosperous community by prioritizing the GMS core principles of the 3Cs approach: Connectivity, Competitiveness, and Community.
For the first C, Connectivity remains a cornerstone of regional integration. Thailand has made significant progresses to connect within subregion and beyond with the launch of the Bangkok-Vientiane international train service, the 3rd phase development of Laem Chabang Port, as well as the plan to construct Lanna and Andaman Airports.
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure to hear about the relaunch of the GMS Cross-Border Transport Agreement (CBTA) after being temporarily interrupted by the pandemic, and called for collective efforts for the next step to advance the CBTA through legal improvements and harmonization as well as other cooperation among GMS colleagues, particularly enhancing connectivity in border areas to facilitate fast, smooth and seamless cross-border trade and transportation.
The second C, Competitiveness. As this Summit highlights innovation-driven development, Thailand will continue its commitment to drive digital transformation of its economy and society. Thailand is moving towards a cashless society by utilizing the national digital payment platforms, namely PromptPay and Cross-border QR Code Payment. According to the Prime Minister, financial technology along with industrial modernization will enhance country’s competitiveness and foster innovative environment.
The third C stands for Community, which is the heart of the GMS. There is a need to synergize collaboration across all sectors and expand social safety nets to cover all individuals. Thailand wholeheartedly supports the GMS Gender Strategy, which aligns with the country’s policy on inclusive development. The Prime Minister also encouraged GMS colleagues to further promote access to equal and quality education and safeguard social stability to ensure the well-being of people across the GMS.
Thailand is also determined to strengthen health security through elevating its notable public health policy ‘30-baht Treat All Diseases’ into the ‘30-baht Get Treatment Anywhere’. Standard health services have been expanded by using Telemedicine and improving digital data linkage across the public health system. Thailand stands ready to share experiences and best practices with all GMS colleagues.
The Prime Minister also reaffirmed Thailand’s commitment to the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which has been integrated and streamlined into the country’s national development plans.
In closing, the Prime Minister extended appreciation to ADB for the unwavering support, and to the Working Groups and Task Forces, development partners, GMS Business Council, local governments, and all GMS colleagues for their dedication to GMS shared vision. She was confident that today’s meeting would strengthen collective efforts and create an enabling environment for regional development and integration. This continued cooperation will drive the GMS towards a more integrated, prosperous, and sustainable subregion that leaves no one behind.
At the 8th Greater Mekong Subregion (GMS) Summit, 2 outcome documents, namely, the Joint Summit Declaration for the 8th GMS Summit; and the Greater Mekong Subregion Innovation Strategy for Development 2030, were adopted.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/89965