รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM: Govt ready to work for best interest of Thai people


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 7 กันยายน 2566
07/09/2566
พิมพ์
​PM: Govt ready to work for best interest of Thai people
​PM: Govt ready to work for best interest of Thai people
September 6, 2023, at 10.00 hrs, at the Command Building I, Government House, following the special session of the cabinet meeting, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin disclosed that he did not make any order or assignment at the first cabinet meeting, but gave the cabinet members a collective guideline to work for the best interest of the people, while adhering to the law and integrity, and appropriately utilizing national budget. He also urged members of the cabinet to work together with government officials in a respectful manner as they play an extremely important role in translating the Government’s policy directives into concrete outcomes. Their promotion and career advancement must be fair and transparent.
The Prime Minister also disclosed about the Government’s policy on transport infrastructure which includes comprehensive development of land, waterway, air, and rail transport. Integration of ticketing system of Bangkok’s mass transit will be looked into for the convenience of commuters, whereas proper fare policy will also be considered in line with the existing budget. With regard to the delivery of Government’s policy statements on September 11, the Prime Minister expressed confidence that each minister would be well prepared and be able to clarify all the issues raised during the session.
The Prime Minister also emphasized that the Government has placed great importance on agriculture and people’s wellbeing, especially the impact of El Niño, market expansion, increase of farmers’ revenue and farming efficiency, production cost reduction, export promotion, and food adequacy for domestic consumption. The issue of El Niño impact against farmers and farming situation will be brought up at the next cabinet meeting on September 13. The Prime Minister is also scheduled to take a field trip to Khon Kaen, Udon Thani, and Nongkhai provinces during September 8-9 to observe the situation and receive direct feedback from the locals.
The Prime Minister affirmed his decision to chair the Police Commission himself. Date of his first Police Commission meeting is now being finalized. On the possibility of overseas visits, Ministry of Foreign Affairs is now working on this matter, which would provide the Prime Minister good opportunities to meet with world leaders and businessmen and discuss trade and investment in Thailand.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/71997