รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Thailand – Hong Kong to promote EEC – GBA connectivity


วันจันทร์ที่ 9 ตุลาคม 2566
09/10/2566
พิมพ์
​Thailand – Hong Kong to promote EEC – GBA connectivity
​Thailand – Hong Kong to promote EEC – GBA connectivity
October 9, 2023, at 12.30 hrs (Hong Kong local time), at the Chief Executive's Office, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin had a bilateral meeting with the Honorable John Lee Ka-chiu, Chief Executive of Hong Kong SAR. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister affirmed Thailand’s commitment to promote cooperation dynamism between Thailand and Hong Kong SAR, especially economic and people-to-people cooperation, and connectivity. Hong Kong is Thailand’s important trade and investment partner and popular tourist destination, and vice versa. He also marveled Hong Kong’s ease of doing business, and hoped for more exchange of high-level visits. The Prime Minister took the opportunity to extend his invitation for Chief Executive of Hong Kong SAR to visit Thailand.
The Chief Executive of Hong Kong SAR commended cordial relations and cooperation between the two sides, especially in economic and technology dimensions. This is a good opportunity for both Thailand and Hong Kong SAR to take forward economic, financial and banking cooperation and benefit in a bid to become the region’s economic hubs, a melting point between the East and the West, and a gateway to mainland China amidst current global challenges and economic recession.
Both parties also discussed issues of mutual interest:
The Prime Minister commended Hong Kong SAR’s role as the region’s trade, financial, and service hub, and connecting point to China. Thailand also stands ready to act as China’s and Hong Kong SAR’s gateway to ASEAN, and hopes to tighten economic cooperation in trade, investment, and connectivity.
Both parties came to terms to reinforce cooperation in new innovations, which are Hong Kong SAR’s expertise. Thailand would like to invite Hong Kong investors to invest in the country’s S-Curve industries, and hopes to advance in-depth cooperation with Hong Kong SAR, especially the connectivity between Thailand’s Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC) and Greater Bay Area (GBA).

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/73178