รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Govt Spokesperson: Govt is working closely with Myanmar and China for safe repatriation of Thai citizens stranded in Myanmar’s Laukkaing


วันอังคารที่ 7 พฤศจิกายน 2566
07/11/2566
พิมพ์
Govt Spokesperson: Govt is working closely with Myanmar and China for safe repatriation of Thai citizens stranded in Myanmar’s Laukkaing
Govt Spokesperson: Govt is working closely with Myanmar and China for safe repatriation of Thai citizens stranded in Myanmar’s Laukkaing
November 5, 2023, Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed about the repatriation of Thai nationals from Myanmar’s Laukkaing, where a conflict between Myanmar troops and ethnic armed groups took place, that Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin has made an order for Ministry of Foreign Affairs and security authorities to closely liaise with the Myanmar Government in a bid to help the stranded Thai civilians.
Deputy national police chief Pol Gen Surachate Hakparn, together with representatives of the Department of Special Investigation, the Royal Thai Police’s Anti-Trafficking in Persons Division, has left for Myanmar to work together with the Royal Thai Embassy in Yangon in bringing back home 162 Thais, who have now been safely sheltered at the Myanmar military base in Laukkaing. The Royal Thai Embassy in Yangon is also liaising with the Royal Thai Embassy in Beijing and the Thai Consulate in Kunming, as well as the Chinese Embassy in Myanmar, to assist remaining Thai citizens, and plan for their safe repatriation.
According to the Government Spokespersons, Ministry of Foreign Affairs has closely collaborated with the Myanmar authority to evacuate Thai people even before the upsurge of fighting, and continued to rescue the remaining Thais to ensure their safety. Plan for the repatriation of these people requires an integrative effort of Thailand, Myanmar, and China. However, considering safety and security of concerned authorities, the plan cannot be disclosed.
The Prime Minister has made an order for all concern agencies to proceed accordingly. The Anti-Trafficking in Persons Division must screen and identify each and everyone of these Thai victims, and prosecute those who committed crime in luring these people to work illegally in Myanmar. The Government Spokesperson called on the public to trust the Government in bringing them back to the country. At present, the 162 victims have been taken care of by the Government through the Royal Thai Embassy in Yangon.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/74274