รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with President Putin of Russian Federation


วันพุธที่ 18 ตุลาคม 2566
PM meets with President Putin of Russian Federation
PM meets with President Putin of Russian Federation
October 17, 2023, at 1800hrs (Beijing local time), at Diaoyutai State Guesthouse, Beijing, People's Republic of China, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin had a bilateral meeting with President Vladimir Putin of the Russian Federation. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure to meet with President Putin. This would be a good occasion to discuss elevation of relations and cooperation between the two countries. Russia has been Thailand’s long-time friend, as the two countries have just celebrated the 125th anniversary of diplomatic relations in 2022. The Prime Minister was of the view that both countries forge closer relations and cooperation in a tangible manner.
President Putin commended long-standing relations between the two countries, and agreed on the increase of both bilateral and multilateral cooperation, especially in tourism and culture, as both sides have very close and cordial people-to-people ties. Additionally, the year 2024 is designated as the year of cultural and tourism exchange between Thailand and Russia. Over a million Russian tourists are also traveling to Thailand each year. The Prime Minister informed President Putin that the cabinet, in its meeting on October 16, 2023, has approved the extension of stay in the Kingdom for Russian citizens from 30 to 90 days.
Both leaders also discussed other issues of cooperation:
On political cooperation, there are regular exchanges of personnel between the Security Council of both countries.
With regard to economic cooperation, the two leaders came to terms on an increase in trade facilitation and export promotion of agro products between the two countries. The Prime Minister also called on Russia to consider more investment in Thailand, and extended his invitation to the Russian President to visit Thailand, on which the President accepted. Both sides will later discuss the most convenient schedule.
Later at 1830hrs, the Prime Minister attended the dinner reception hosted by Chinese President Xi Jinping and spouse at the Great Hall of the People.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/73499