รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with chairman of China’s Standing Committee of the National People's Congress


วันพุธที่ 18 ตุลาคม 2566
17/10/2566
พิมพ์
PM meets with chairman of China’s Standing Committee of the National People's Congress
PM meets with chairman of China’s Standing Committee of the National People's Congress
October 17, 2023, at 1630hrs (Beijing local time), at the Reception Hall, the Great Hall of the People, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin had a meeting with chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress Zhao Leji. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister congratulated the 74th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China (PRC) on October 1, 2023, and the country’s successful hosting of the 19th Asian Games in Hangzhou. He also expressed deep condolences over the death and injury of Chinese tourists during the violent incident at a Thai department store. The Thai Government and all concerned sides committed to providing a remedy to the victims, pressing charge to the culprit according to the law, and tightening measures to ensure safety of the tourists.
Chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress stated that China has placed importance on the Thai Prime Minister’s visit to further strengthen bilateral relations. China is also keen to cooperate with Thailand at the multilateral level under both the ASEAN and Mekong subregional frameworks. He also conveyed his regards to the Thai House Speaker, and affirmed China's intent to work together with Thailand at all levels.
Both parties also discussed issues of mutual interest:
The Prime Minister commended the role of the Chinese Government and the Communist Party in eradicating poverty, and promoting economic advancement in leaps and bounds. He also congratulated the continuous progress of Thailand-China comprehensive strategic partnership. Both parties were pleased with China being Thailand's No. 1 trading partner and foreign investor in the past year. Nevertheless, there remains potential for further development. The Prime Minister extended his invitation for Chinese enterprises to make investments in Thailand’s targeted industries, e.g., EVs, semiconductors, the BCG industries, etc.
The two parties also congratulated people’s traveling between the two countries which has returned to normalcy. The Prime Minister emphasized that the Thai Government has placed great importance on tourism promotion. One of the measures that has already been implemented is visa exemption granted to Chinese tourists for the period of 5 months. Additionally, the Thai Parliament and the Chinese Standing Committee of the National People's Congress have long forged close relations through regular exchange of visits and other joint activities. The Prime Minister hoped that a high-level exchange of visits between the Thai House Speaker and chairman of Chinese Standing Committee of the National People's Congress also take place more regularly to reinforce relations and cooperation.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/73468