รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM: Govt strives to sustain stability of rice and farmers’ revenue


วันอังคารที่ 8 มิถุนายน 2564
พิมพ์
PM: Govt strives to sustain stability of rice and farmers’ revenue
PM: Govt strives to sustain stability of rice and farmers’ revenue
June 7, 2021, at 1400hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Minister of Agriculture and Cooperative Chalermchai Sri-on led Mr. Sakda Khetklang, National Outstanding Farmer of 2021, central committee of the National Community Rice Center, and executives of the Ministry, to pay a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of the 2021 National Rice and Farmer’s Day. Also participating in the meeting were Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Cooperative Prapat Pothasuthon, and Prime Minister’s Secretary General Distat Hotrakitya. Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister underscored the Government’s rice-related policy to sustain stability of rice and farmers’ revenue. Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperative, Ministry of Commerce, and Ministry of Interior have collaborated to come up with an inclusive plan for rice production and marketing in a bid to promote rice management throughout the supply chain, under the marketing-led approach. Agricultural sector development will be undertaken in accordance with the 20-Year National Strategy to empower farmers and farmer groups, develop agricultural production resources, and to add more value to agro products.
According to the Prime Minister, in order to promote self-sustainability of farmers and farmer organizations, the target is made for the “rice community”, consisting of rice cooperatives, rice community enterprises, community rice centers, and over 10,000 groups of farmers, to be strengthened according to the standard by 2024. Farmers in a ‘rice community” will be developed to become either smart farmers, super farmers, or young smart farmers.
The Government has especially placed an importance on small-scaled farmers, and strives to promote large-scale rice farming to ensure fair distribution of farmers’ earnings. Other two points that need to be addressed are to reduce cost on agricultural machineries, and to maintain rice price stability. The Prime Minister also called on the farmers to adapt themselves to new technology-based farming culture. He also thanked the farmers for producing and developing the quality of Thai rice, and affirmed that farmers are always in the Prime Minister’s heart.
The cabinet, in its meeting on June 23, 2019 approved for June 5 of each year as the National Rice and Farmer’s Day to remember the importance of rice on Thai people’s life as the country’s main dish, and to honor farmers and boost their morale.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/42536