รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM pleased with Thailand – China’s Guangdong trade and investment cooperation


วันอังคารที่ 4 กรกฎาคม 2566
04/07/2566
พิมพ์
PM pleased with Thailand – China’s Guangdong trade and investment cooperation
PM pleased with Thailand – China’s Guangdong trade and investment cooperation
July 3, 2023, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha congratulated the success of China (Guangdong) – Thailand Economic Cooperation Conference which was held by the Government of Guangdong and China Council for the Promotion of International Trade (CCPIT) Guangdong, in collaboration with Office of the Eastern Economic Corridor on June 28, 2023.
The conference, which was participated by over 200 representatives from concerned public and private sectors of both countries, is aimed to intensify collaboration between Thailand’s EEC and China’s Greater Bay Area (GBA) through China’s One Belt One Road. At the conference, MOU signing ceremony was held, following the business matching between private sector of the two countries for the following projects: 1) Thailand – Guangdong Industrial Estate; 2) aluminum trading cooperation project; 3) food supplements and amino production; 4. investment promotion of Chinese electric vehicle companies for electric vehicles (EV) production; 5. herbs import-export cooperation project; 6. hi-tech logistics center; 7. agarwood utilization promotion; 8. bird's nest export to China; 9. exhibition center project; and 10. e-commerce center construction project. These projects are expected to generate an economic value of over 50 billion Baht.
Thailand and China’s Guangdong also agreed upon cooperation expansion in science and technology, innovation, cultural tourism, Chinese medicine, and vocational education. The EEC delegation will also travel to China early this month to conduct a roadshow in Guangdong and Shanghai in a bid to attract Chinese investment in EVs, clean energy, electric batteries, and medicine, among others.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Prime Minister handed down a policy to promote EEC as the region’s trade and investment hub for the S-Curve industries, through cooperation and integrative operation of all concerned sectors. The conference success reflects the confidence of Chinese business sector on Thailand, and demonstrates Thailand and EEC’s potentiality and capacity in both infrastructure, technology and innovation, and personnel development to accommodate all types of industry, especially the S-Curve industries.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/69975