รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM to attend ASEAN-EU Commemorative Summit in Belgium on December 12-15


วันอาทิตย์ที่ 11 ธันวาคม 2565
พิมพ์
​PM to attend ASEAN-EU Commemorative Summit in Belgium on December 12-15
​PM to attend ASEAN-EU Commemorative Summit in Belgium on December 12-15
December 10, 2022, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha is scheduled to attend the ASEAN-EU Commemorative Summit during December 12-15, 2022 in Brussels, Kingdom of Belgium to celebrate the 45th anniversary of ASEAN-EU relations.
This ASEAN-EU Commemorative Summit is historic as it is the inaugural meeting between 9 ASEAN leaders/representatives and leaders/representatives of 27 EU member countries under the ASEAN framework (earlier ASEAN-EU Summits were held between ASEAN leaders, president of the European Council, and president of the European Commission). This would, thus, be an important opportunity for leaders from ASEAN and the European Union to exchange view on the regional and international issues of current concern, especially geopolitics, security challenges, economic recovery, and digital and green transition.
The Prime Minister’s missions include attending the C-Suite Roundtable Luncheon, organized by the EU-ASEAN Business Council (EU-ABC). This event will allow the European private sector to give suggestion to and exchange view with the leaders on the issues related to trade and investment. Members of EU-ABC and private sector’s high-level executives will also attend the C-Suite Roundtable Luncheon. In his attendance at the ASEAN-EU Commemorative Summit to celebrate the 45th anniversary of ASEAN-EU relations, the Prime Minister will also witness the signing of Thai-EU Partnership and Cooperation Agreement (Thai-EU PCA).
At the C-Suite Roundtable Luncheon, Thailand will emphasize cooperation for inclusive, balanced, and sustainable socio-economic development driven by the BCG economic model, which is in line with the Global Gateway, EU’s initiative that aims to mobilize up to €300 billion of investments in digital, climate and energy, transport, health, and education and research.
At the ASEAN-EU Commemorative Summit, the Prime Minister will endorse EU’s constructive role in the region to build trust and peaceful atmosphere conducive to economic recovery while upholding ASEAN’s centrality in the regional architecture. Thailand will also push forward ASEAN-EU strategic partnership as positive and constructive energy for the two regions and the global community, and the ASEAN-EU Green Partnership on which Thailand is ASEAN’s leader in promoting.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/62554