รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on November 29, 2024. 


วันจันทร์ที่ 2 ธันวาคม 2567
02/12/2567
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on November 29, 2024.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Request for Government’s contingency fund for emergency for water resource development, water management, water management preparation projects, and flood rehabilitation projects
The cabinet approved the allocation of Government’s central fund for contingency and emergency (FY2025) at the total amount of 2,787,008,900 Baht for the Royal Irrigation Department’s implementation of 523 water resource development, water management, water management preparation projects, and flood rehabilitation projects. This is as proposed by Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives.
Gist
This is aimed to:
(1) To increase the efficiency of water drainage by removing weeds that obstruct waterways
(2) To repair/improve buildings and irrigation systems that have been damaged by floods or long-time usage
(3) To prevent flood and inundation in residential areas, agricultural and industrial areas
(4) To prepare for floods and droughts that may occur in the future
(5) To efficiently manage water for agriculture, consumption and other activities
Title: Request for approval of draft Joint Ministerial Statement of the Thirteenth ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on Youth and draft Joint Ministerial Statement of the Ninth ASEAN Plus Three Ministerial Meeting on Youth
The cabinet approved the following proposal of Ministry of Social Development and Human Security:
Approved the draft Joint Ministerial Statement of the Thirteenth ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on Youth and draft Joint Ministerial Statement of the Ninth ASEAN Plus Three Ministerial Meeting on Youth. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not just nor against national interest, the Ministry may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet
Approved for Minister of Social Development and Human Security or a representative, as head of the Thai delegation at the Thirteenth ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on Youth and the Ninth ASEAN Plus Three Ministerial Meeting on Youth, to adopt the two documents via a teleconference on November 30, 2024.
Gist
The draft Joint Ministerial Statement of the Thirteenth ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on Youth affirms ASEAN’s commitment to drive forward the ASEAN Youth Work Plan 2021-2025; support the implementation of Youths’ Digital Skills Development Project for Future Ready ASEAN; emphasize ASEAN's commitment to promote the role of youths in social and economic development and building of the ASEAN Community; and increase awareness on the ASEAN Community among ASEAN youths.
The draft Joint Ministerial Statement of the Ninth ASEAN Plus Three Ministerial Meeting on Youth affirms ASEAN’s commitment to drive forward ASEAN Work Plan on Youth 2021-2025 and the ASEAN Work Plan on Youth+3 2021-2025; emphasize intercultural and interfaith dialogue to promote a culture of peace; take into account the importance of preserving local culture and identity; promote youth participation, digital and youth entrepreneurship; and acknowledge the success of youth-related projects.
Title: Negotiation Framework and Composition of Thailand's Delegation to the 16th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD COP 16)
The cabinet approved the Negotiation Framework and Composition of Thailand's Delegation to the 16th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD COP 16), as proposed by Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives.
Gist
The Secretariat of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification has set the dates for the organization of UNCCD COP 16 and parallel meetings, namely, 1) the 22nd session of the Committee for the Review of the Implementation of the Convention (CRIC22); 2) the 16th session of the Committee on Science and Technology (CST16); 3) the 16th session of the Committee on Science and Technology (CST16); and 4) High Level Segment, on December 2-3 2024.
UNCCD COP 16 and parallel meetings are aimed to develop cooperation and implement the Convention effectively and progressively for achieving the goals in combating desertification, preventing land degradation, mitigating the effects of drought, and eliminating poverty. Key agendas of the meetings include sustainable development within the Convention context, efficiency enhancement and guidelines of the implementation of the Convention.
Composition of Thailand's Delegation to UNCCD COP 16 are Director-General of the Office of the National Land Policy Board (ONLB), as head of the Thai delegation; 3 representatives from ONLB; 5 representatives from the Department of Land Development; 4 representatives from the Royal Rainmaking and Agricultural Aviation Department; 1 representative from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and 1 representative from the Agricultural Land Reform Office.
Title: Negotiations to become a party to the Digital Economy Partnership Agreement (DEPA)
The cabinet approved Thailand’s negotiations to become a party to the Digital Economy Partnership Agreement (DEPA), and the negotiation framework. Ministry of Digital Economy and Society is assigned as a focal point for the negotiations, with Ministry of Commerce and Ministry of Foreign Affairs as supporting agencies. This is as proposed by Ministry of Digital Economy and Society.
Gist
Digital Economy Agreements (DEAs) seek to establish and shape international rules and benchmarks, promote digital trade and connectivity, and facilitate interoperability through aligning standards and frameworks. The DEPA welcomed its first new member, Korea, in May 2024. As of November 2024, seven aspirant economies have applied to join the DEPA. They are China, Canada, Costa Rica, Peru, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), El Salvador and Ukraine.
Singapore has been continuously encouraging Thailand to join the DEPA Agreement since 2021. Relevant agencies, namely the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Commerce, and Office of Council of State, were requested to deiberate the draft DEPA negotiation framework, and the said agencies have no objections to the participation.
Title: Preparation and signing of the Agreement between Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and Government of People’s Republic of China on travel arrangement of Lingguang Temple’s Buddha relics to be temporarily enshrined in Thailand
The cabinet approved preparation and signing of the Agreement between Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and Government of People’s Republic of China on travel arrangement of Lingguang Temple’s Buddha relics to be temporarily enshrined in Thailand. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Office of PM’s Permanent Secretary may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister Attached to the Prime Minister's Office (Mr. Chousak Sirinil) is authorized to sign the Agreement on behalf of the Thai Government.
Gist
Ministry of Foreign Affairs has liaised with the Chinese Government to arrange for the travel of the Buddha relics to be temporarily enshrined in Thailand on occasion of the auspicious ceremony of His Majesty the King's 6th Cycle Birthday Anniversary on 28 July 2024, and China has sent a letter accepting the request for Lingguang Temple’s Buddha relics (in Beijing) to be temporarily enshrined in Thailandbetween December 2024 - February 2025, a period of 73 days. The Agreement prescribes detail related to Buddah relics temporary enshrinement in Thailand, e.g., transportation, display, insurance, security measures, and related costs.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/90882