รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on November 19, 2024. 


วันจันทร์ที่ 2 ธันวาคม 2567
02/12/2567
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on November 19, 2024.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulations prescribing text for advertising cosmetics B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Ministerial Regulations prescribing text for advertising cosmetics that are unfair to consumers or that may cause negative effects on society as a whole, B.E. …, as scrutinized by Office of Council of State and as proposed by Ministry of Public Health.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulations prescribing text for advertising cosmetics that are unfair to consumers or that may cause negative effects on society as a whole, B.E. … was approved in principle by the cabinet on September 3, 2024. After the scrutiny of the Office of Council of State, addition of clauses has been made without affected gist of the draft documents. Added clauses are as follows:
Texts that can be construed the use on the inside of human body, excluding texts used in advertising tampons or those that construe the use on the teeth and oral mucosa.
Texts that construe the use for injection or in conjunction with a device or equipment that invasively enters the body, or texts that construe the use in conjunction with a device or equipment that pushes substance deeper into the body than the epidermis.
Title: Draft ministerial regulation prescribing other businesses as agriculture under Land Lease for Agriculture Act. B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft ministerial regulation prescribing other businesses as agriculture under Land Lease for Agriculture Act. B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Interior, which is already deliberated by Office of Council of State.
Gist
According to Section 5 of the Land Lease for Agriculture Act. B.E. 2524, “agriculture” is defined as rice farming, fruit farming, farming, salt farming, animal raising, aquaculture and other activities as provided in ministerial regulations. However, nowadays, agricultural occupation has become more diverse with different forms and methods of agriculture. Therefore, new definitions are added under Section 5 of the Land Lease for Agriculture Act. They are: (1) Growing economic trees for commercial purposes as a regular business; (2) Growing mulberry trees for silk farming; (3) Growing mushrooms; (4) Growing grass for commercial purposes or for raising animals; (5) Growing flowers or ornamental plants; and (6) Raising economic insects.
Title: Request for approval for operating loan (in case of an excess of expenditure over income) at the budget framework of 17,500 million baht for State Railway of Thailand for fiscal year 2025
The cabinet approved the proposal of Ministry of Transport for the operating loan (in case of an excess of expenditure over income) for State Railway of Thailand at the budget framework of 17,500 million baht for fiscal year 2025. This is in accordance with Section 39 (4) of the State Railway of Thailand Act, B.E. 2494.
Title Draft outcome documents of the 5th Review Conference of the Anti-Personnel Mine Ban Convention (APMBC)
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Foreign Affairs:
Approved the draft Siem Reap-Angkor Declaration on a Mine-Free World 2024 and the draft Siem Reap-Angkor Action Plan 2025-2029 as the outcome documents of the 5th Review Conference of the Anti-Personnel Mine Ban Convention (APMBC). Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Miinstry of Foreign Affairs is to proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
Authorized Director-General of the Department of International Organizations, Ministry of Foreign Affairs or a representative, as head of the Thai delegation, to adopt and sign the two outcome documents.
Gist
Adoption of the draft Siem Reap-Angkor Declaration on a Mine-Free World 2024 and the draft Siem Reap-Angkor Action Plan 2025-2029 demonstrates Thailand’s standpoint and commitment to implement the obligations under the Anti-Personnel Mine Ban Convention together with the international community, and to set the direction for the implementation of the obligations under the Convention over the next five years. The two documents have already been endorsed by Thailand Mine Action Centre (TMAC), the Royal Thai Armed Forces, and the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (DEP) under the Ministry of Social Development and Human Security.
The 5th Review Conference of the Anti-Personnel Mine Ban Convention (APMBC) will be held during November 25-29, 2024, in Siem Reap, Cambodia
Title: Draft Ministerial Declaration for IAEA Ministerial Conference on Nuclear Science, Technology and Applications and the Technical Cooperation Programme
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research, and Innovation:
Approved the draft Ministerial Declaration for IAEA Ministerial Conference on Nuclear Science, Technology and Applications and the Technical Cooperation Programme. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, head of the Thai delegation may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
Approved for Permanent Secretary of Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research, and Innovation, as head of the Thai delegation at the IAEA Ministerial Conference on Nuclear Science, Technology and Applications and the Technical Cooperation Programme to adopt the draft Declaration at the meeting on November 26, 2024, to be held in Vienna, Republic of Austria.
Gist
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) will hold its Ministerial Conference on Nuclear Science, Technology and Applications and the Technical Cooperation Programme during November 26-28, 2024 in Vienna, Republic of Austria. The draft Ministerial Declaration emphasizes the importance of nuclear science and technology in the economic, social and sustainable development, nuclear governance, raising of public awareness, and the role of the IAEA on Technical Cooperation Programme (TCP).
In adopting the draft Ministerial Declaration, Thailand will receive support under various forms of academic cooperation projects, including knowledge transfer, equipment and tools procurement, and subsidies for Thai personnel’s trainings and field visits abroad. It will also be the symbolic demonstration of Thailand's commitment to promoting the use of nuclear energy and technology for national development.
Title: Approval of outcome documents for 30th ASEAN Transport Ministers Meeting (ATM) and related meetings
The cabinet approved outcome documents for 30th ASEAN Transport Ministers Meeting (ATM) and related meetings as proposed by Ministry of Transport. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Transport may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Transport or a representative is authorized to adopt the outcome documents at the 30th ASEAN Transport Ministers Meeting (ATM) and related meetings.
Gist
The 9 outcome documents to be adopted at the 30th ASEAN Transport Ministers Meeting (ATM) and related meetings are as follows:
(1) ร่างแนวทางอาเซียนด้านยานยนต์ไฟฟ้าขนาดเล็ก (ASEAN Guidelines on Light Electric Vehicles)
(2) ร่างแนวทางอาเซียนด้านการขนส่งสินค้าในเมือง (ASEAN Guidelines on Urban Freight Transport)
(3) ร่างแนวทางอาเซียนด้านการร่วมลงทุนระหว่างรัฐและเอกชนของท่าเรือ (ASEAN Guidelines on Port Sector Public Private Partnership)
(4) ร่างแนวทางอาเซียนด้านดิจิทัลและระบบอัตโนมัติของท่าเรือ (ASEAN Guidelines on Port Digitalisation and Automation)
(5) ร่างแถลงการณ์ร่วมกัวลาลัมเปอร์ ค.ศ. 2024 รัฐมนตรีขนส่งอาเซียนว่าด้วย
ความปลอดภัยทางถนน (ASEAN Ministerial Statement on Kuala Lumpur 2024
Road Safety Framework)
(6) ร่างแถลงการณ์ร่วมการประชุมรัฐมนตรีขนส่งอาเซียนครั้งที่ 30 [The Thirtieth ASEAN Transport Ministers Meeting (30th  ATM) Joint Ministerial Statement]
(7) ร่างแถลงการณ์ร่วมการประชุมรัฐมนตรีขนส่งอาเซียน - จีน ครั้งที่ 23 [The Twenty - Third ASEAN-China Transport Ministers Meeting (23rd  ATM + China) Joint Ministerial Statement]
(8) ร่างแถลงการณ์ร่วมการประชุมรัฐมนตรีขนส่ง อาเซียน - ญี่ปุ่น ครั้งที่ 22 [The Twenty – Second ASEAN – Japan Transport Ministers Meeting (22nd  ATM + Japan) Joint Ministerial Statement]
(9) ร่างแถลงการณ์ร่วมการประชุมรัฐมนตรีขนส่ง อาเซียน - เกาหลี ครั้งที่ 15 [The Fifteenth ASEAN and Republic of Korea Transport Ministers Meeting (15th  ASEAN + ROK) Joint Ministerial Statement]
Title: Approval of the Bangkok Declaration for WHO Oral Health Meeting
The cabinet approved the Bangkok Declaration to be adopted at the WHO Oral Health Meeting. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Public Health may exercise judgment and proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Representative of Ministry of Public Health is authorized to adopt the draft Declaration. This is as proposed by Ministry of Public Health.
Gist
Ministry of Public Health is collaborating with World Health Organization (WHO) to organize the WHO Global Oral Health Meeting during November 26-29, 2024 in Bangkok. The Bangkok Declaration for WHO Oral Health Meeting demonstrates common political will of the representatives of the Member States, and various sectors attending the Conference, to urgently support the prevention and control of oral diseases, including calling for the support of universal health coverage for oral health, without any words or context intended to create obligations under international law.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/90881