รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล- PM: Thailand opposes use of violence in any case


วันจันทร์ที่ 2 ธันวาคม 2567
02/12/2567
พิมพ์
PM: Thailand opposes use of violence in any case
PM: Thailand opposes use of violence in any case
December 1, 2024, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra, together with Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense Phumtham Wechayachai and Minister of Foreign Affairs Maris Sangiampongsa, gave an interview on the gunfire incident at Thai fishing boats that took place in the morning of November 30, 2024. According to the Prime Minister, 1 death, 2 injured, and over 30 detainees, out of which 4 are Thai nationals, were reported. The cause of gunfire, whether it be the issue of encroachment or not, has yet to be concluded. Nevertheless, the Prime Minister affirmed Thailand’s standpoint on opposing the use of violence in any case, and that she would be immediately reported if there is any progress to the incident.
According to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense, the Thai-Myanmar Local Border Committee (TBC) has formally protested against the use of violence, and called for thorough investigation into the gunfire incident. Minister of Foreign Affairs have been liaising with Myanmar authority on the negotiations to retrieve the seized boats and bring back the detainees.
Minister of Foreign Affairs added that the Ministry has issued a letter of concern on the incident. He will also summon the Myanmar Ambassador to Thailand to call for thorough and transparent probe into the matter, and release of the 4 Thai detainees the soonest. According to the latest report, the 4 detainees remain safe. With good relations between Thailand and Myanmar, the Minister expressed confidence on positivity of the discussion.
The Prime Minister added that with the negotiation protocols, she was not able to disclose any information or make any commitment now, but the media would definitely be informed of the situation progress, if any.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/90916