รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM chairs opening of Thailand BCG Exhibition ahead of APEC Economic Leaders’ meetings


วันอังคารที่ 15 พฤศจิกายน 2565
พิมพ์
PM chairs opening of Thailand BCG Exhibition ahead of APEC Economic Leaders’ meetings
PM chairs opening of Thailand BCG Exhibition ahead of APEC Economic Leaders’ meetings
November 14, 2022, at 1400hrs, at Hall II, Queen Sirikit National Convention Center (QSNCC), Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha presided over the opening of Thailand BCG Exhibition, which is held during the APEC Economic Leaders’ Week (AELW). Participating in the opening ceremony were Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Energy Supattanapong Punmeechaow, Minister of Digital Economy and Society Chaiwut Thanakamanusorn, Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Cooperatives Praphat Phothasoothon, Prime Minister Secretary General Distat Hotrakitya, executives of public and private organizations (exhibitors), ambassadors and envoys from over 50 diplomatic missions, and youth representatives under the APEC Voices of the Future program. Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure to chair the opening of Thailand BCG Exhibition, which officially kicks off the AELW. It unveils Thailand’s readiness and commitment to drive forward BCG Economy agenda for regional and global development. The Prime Minister stated that the Exhibition showcases best practices and concrete examples of the BCG in action and Thailand’s successful application of the BCG economic model to address the climate change. The concept also contributes to global efforts towards the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
The Prime Minister thanked all concerned agencies, and commended success of the Exhibition, which demonstrates the solidarity of all concerned sectors in fully propelling and implementing the BCG economic model among all groups of people.
The Prime Minister, then, took a group photo with executives of public and private organizations (exhibitors) and youth representatives under the APEC Voices of the Future program, and visited exhibition booths.
Thailand BCG Exhibition consists of 3 parts. The first part presents the BCG concept and its success stories in the agriculture, industry and tourism sectors driven by relevant government agencies. This part is divided into 4 zones: 1) tourism zone, where the concept of regenerative tourism is presented;  2) industrial zone, which showcases the BCG Ecosystem that links with ICT, logistics, R&D, and human resource infrastructure for the EEC’s S-Curve industries; 3) agricultural zone; and 4) Bangkok Goals on BCG Economy which highlights the connection between BCG economic model and global agendas.
The second part showcases goods and products under Ministry of Commerce’s “BCG Heroes” campaign, as well as Thailand's candidature for “Expo 2028 Phuket” which aspired to address a global dialogue on sustainability.
The last part, which highlights Responsible Business Conduct (RBC), exhibits the efforts and success of Thai private sector in promoting sustainable business practices.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/61655