รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-“Discover the New You” campaign launched to promote health and wellness tourism


วันจันทร์ที่ 10 กรกฎาคม 2566
10/07/2566
พิมพ์
“Discover the New You” campaign launched to promote health and wellness tourism
“Discover the New You” campaign launched to promote health
and wellness tourism
July 8, 2023, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government
Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that on July 10, 2023, Prime Minister and
Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha expressed support over Tourism Authority of Thailand
(TAT)’s campaign: “Discover the New You!” which is aimed to promote health and wellness
tourism in a creative manner, in line with the Government’s policy to push for new types of
tourism that are more diverse and sustainable, and that meet the demand of modern day
tourists.
TAT has collaborated with over 130 leading health &amp; wellness business operators, hotels,
wellness resorts and spas, as well as hospitals and specialized clinics, to launch the campaign
“Discover the New You!” under the overarching “Amazing Thailand Health and Wellness New
Chapters New Experience” program to introduce health and wellness travel products and
services under the concept of Meaningful Wellness. TAT has also extended its invitation to tour
operators and bloggers/influencers to participate in the campaign in a bid to attract health and
wellness tourists around the world. Under the campaign, 15 tourism routes have been
identified. It is expected that the campaign stimulates no less than 3,000 nationwide travels,
and generate over 18 million Baht in revenue by September 2023.
The Government Spokesperson added that the Prime Minister thanked all concerned sectors for
launching the campaign, which would attract more tourists with high purchasing power, and
contribute to the nation’s economic value. Those who are interested in the campaign may check
out further information and purchase products and services under the campaign at:
https://www.discoverthenewyou.travel/, or www.facebook.com/thailanddiscoverthenewyou, or
Line Official Account: @tat-wellness.th.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/70171