รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM welcomes Sri Lankan Premier to attend 18th United International Vesak Day in Thailand  


วันพุธที่ 31 พฤษภาคม 2566
31/05/2566
พิมพ์
​PM welcomes Sri Lankan Premier to attend 18th United International Vesak Day in Thailand
​PM welcomes Sri Lankan Premier to attend 18th United International Vesak Day in Thailand
May 31, 2023, at 1000hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Dinesh Gunawardena, Prime Minister of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his visit to Thailand to attend the 18th United International Vesak Day. Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed Sri Lankan Prime Minister to Thailand. Regular collaboration between Thailand and Sri Lanka on the celebration of Vesak Day reflects close relations between the two countries, especially Buddhism that connects the two countries for over 700 years. The Prime Minister also congratulated Sri Lanka’s economic recovery, and expressed Thailand’s willingness to provide further assistance should there be a request from Sri Lanka. He also thanked Sri Lankan Government for approving the return to Thailand of “Plai Saksurin,” a male elephant bestowed to the Government of Sri Lanka by the Thai counterpart 21 years ago, for treatment.
The Sri Lankan Prime Minister thanked the Prime Minister for the warm welcome, and expressed pleasure to celebrate the Vesak Day in Thailand. He hoped that the two countries also forge relations and cooperation in other potential areas, particularly human resource development, and to promote exchange of visits at all levels. The Sri Lankan Prime Minister took the opportunity to express appreciation over Thailand’s help during the country’s economic crisis, and commended Thai economic potentiality. Sri Lanka would also like to enhance cooperation and learn about good practices in food security.
Both parties also discussed other areas of cooperation:
On economic cooperation, both the Prime Ministers were pleased with the progress on Thailand-Sri Lanka FTA negotiation, which is hoped to finalize by early 2024 to elevate economic cooperation and increase mutual trade value. The Sri Lankan Prime Minister called on the Thai Government to encourage Thai private sector’s investment in the country. At present, a number of Thai private sector has expressed interest to invest in Sri Lanka’s Port City of Colombo project, on which the Prime Minister was confident that Thailand’s expertise in tourism & service sector, and retailing would be beneficial to the project.
The Prime Minister also affirmed Thailand’s commitment to cooperate with Sri Lanka as development partner, and share knowledge and good practices in the areas of Thailand’s expertise, i.e., public health, tourism management, agriculture, women and children development, renewable energy, Bio-Circular-Green (BCG) Economy, and Sufficiency Economy Philosophy.
Toward the end of the meeting, both parties came to terms that the two countries strengthen comprehensive relations and cooperation in response to current economic challenges and geopolitical conflicts. The Prime Minister also thanked Sri Lanka for its support over Thailand's bid to host the Expo 2028 Phuket Thailand, and was pleased to learn that the Sri Lankan President is scheduled to attend the BIMSTEC Summit to be hosted by Thailand toward the end of the year.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/68750