รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on July 23, 2024.


วันอังคารที่ 30 กรกฎาคม 2567
30/07/2567
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on July 23, 2024.
The cabinet met on July 23, 2024.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Opening, extension of hours, and closing of border crossing points
The cabinet acknowledged the opening, extension of hours, and closing of Thai border crossing points with the neighboring countries as proposed by the National Security Council.
Gist
1. Acknowledged opening of the permanent border crossing point at the Thai-Cambodian Friendship Bridge (Ban Nong Ian - Stung Bot) in Aranyaprathet District, Sa Kaeo province. This is in order not to lose opportunities and benefits in border trade, and alleviate traffic congestion at the Ban Khlong Luek – Poi Pet permanent border crossing point. The decision is agreeable with the Cambodian counterpart
2. Acknowledged adjustment of working hours at Phu Doo permanent border crossing point in Ban Khok District, Uttaradit province from 6:00 - 20:00 every day to 8:00 - 18:00 every day in order to be consistent with the current hours of Lao PDR’s Khon Phueng border crossing point in Sayabouly Province.
3. Acknowledged extension of working hours at Chong Sa-Ngam permanent border crossing point in Phu Sing district, Sisaket province to 07:00 – 22:00
4. Acknowledged closing of Ban Pak Huai permanent border crossing point in Tha Li district, Loei
5. Instructed that caution must be taken for any operation at the border area to avoid causing damage and affecting national security. Relevant government agencies must strictly comply with the cabinet resolution, dated October 12, 1999 (regarding guidelines for road construction or any business operation along the border area) and the cabinet resolution, dated May 10, 2005 (regarding suspension of road construction at Chong Chom permanent border crossing point, Surin province).
6. Ministry of Interior is to issue announcements in accordance with the immigration law, and take actions accordingly, including notifying concerned provinces.
Title: Request for approval of Abu Dhabi Dialogue Seventh Ministerial Declaration
The cabinet approved the Abu Dhabi Dialogue Seventh Ministerial Declaration. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against the principle approved by the cabinet, Ministry of Labor may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet, and inform the cabinet later of the change. This is as proposed by Ministry of Labor.
Gist
The Abu Dhabi Dialogue Seventh Ministerial Declaration identifies areas of cooperation among the ADD member states, that is, (1) Climate Change and Labour Movement in the Asian and Gulf Cooperation Framework; (2) Labor Movement for a Just Transition to a Green Economy; (3) Understanding and Managing Gig Workers in ADD Member States by Addressing Legal, Social and Professional Impacts; and (4) Unlocking Skills and Diversity in Improving Labor Productivity in ADD Member States.
Title: Outcome documents for 57th ASEAN Foreign Ministers’ Meeting and related ministerial meetings
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Foreign Affairs:
1. Approved the following 7 draft outcome documents for the 57th ASEAN Foreign Ministers’ Meeting and related ministerial meetings
a. Joint Communiqué of the 57th ASEAN Foreign Ministers’ Meeting
b. ASEAN - UK Joint Ministerial Statement: Enhancing Connectivity for a Prosperous and Sustainable Future
c. ASEAN - China Foreign Ministers’ Joint Statement on Strengthening Humanitarian Mine Action Cooperation
d. Joint Statement of ASEAN and Russia Foreign Ministers Commemorating the 20th Anniversary of Russia’s Accession to the Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in Southeast Asia
e. ARF Statement on Enhancing Regional Cooperation on Ferry Safety
f. Letter of Consent for the Accession to the Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in Southeast Asia (TAC) by the People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria
g. Letter of Consent for the Accession to the Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in Southeast Asia (TAC) by the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg
2. Approved for Minister of Foreign Affairs or a representative to adopt documents a – e
3. Authorized Minister of Foreign Affairs as signatory of documents f - g

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/86464