รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Govt hosts Grand Reception in honor of H.M. the King on occasion of His Majesty’s 6th cycle birthday anniversary on July 28, 2024   


วันอังคารที่ 30 กรกฎาคม 2567
30/07/2567
พิมพ์
Govt hosts Grand Reception in honor of H.M. the King on occasion of His Majesty’s 6th cycle birthday anniversary on July 28, 2024
Govt hosts Grand Reception in honor of H.M. the King on occasion of His Majesty’s 6th cycle birthday anniversary on July 28, 2024
July 29, 2024, HRH Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn presided over the Grand Reception in honor of His Majesty King Rama X on auspicious occasion of His Majesty’s 6th cycle birthday anniversary on July 28, 2024, which was organized by the Government of Thailand at Santi Maitri Building, Government House.
At 1845hrs, Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin and spouse, Mrs. Pakpilai Thavisin, and Prime Miniter’s Secretary General Prommin Lertsuridej, welcomed the arrival of HRH Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn. The royal guards of honor saluted, and a concert band played the royal anthem “Sansoen Phra Barami”. The Prime Minister’s spouse presented Her Royal Highness with the wrist garlands.
The Prime Minister, then, invited Her Royal Highness to the Blue Room, Santi Maitri Building where Her Royal Highness signed the guest book. The Prime Minister presented Her Royal Highness with the Government’s souvenir for His Majesty the King, and invited her to the Central Hall. The concert band played the royal anthem “Sansoen Phra Barami” before the Prime Minister humbly requested for the royal permission to extend his well wishes to His Majesty the King. He, then, led all participants to chant “Long Live the King” for three times.
Afterwards, Her Royal Highness watched a spectacle to celebrate His Majesty’s 6th cycle birthday anniversary.
The royal anthem “Sadudee Chom Racha (Hymn to the King) was played after the spectacle ended in honor of His Majesty King Rama X. The Prime Minister and spouse, and the Prime Miniter’s Secretary General, then, humbly accompanied HRH Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn to the royal motorcade for her return. The royal guards of honor saluted and the concert band played the royal anthem “Sansoen Phra Barami”.
On this occasion, the Government invited members of the royal family, representatives of the royal bureaus, organizations under the Constitution, former prime ministers, cabinet members and spouses, political government officials of the Prime Minister’s Office and under Prime Minister’s authority, ministry permanent secretaries and equivalent levels of high-ranking officials from the civil services, military, police, Dean of the Diplomatic Corps, ambassadors, honorary consuls, and consuls, UN representatives, chiefs of state enterprises, president of councils/associations (Thai Chamber of Commerce, Federation of Thai Industries, Thai Bankers Association, Association of International Banks, Tourism Council of Thailand, Thai Capital Market Organization) presidents of foundations (under the royal patronage), media and press, and private sector networks, to attend the Grand Reception.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/86439