รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM meets with Ambassador of Denmark to Thailand


วันจันทร์ที่ 6 กุมภาพันธ์ 2566
06/02/2566
พิมพ์
​PM meets with Ambassador of Denmark to Thailand
​PM meets with Ambassador of Denmark to Thailand
February 2, 2023, at 09.30 hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Jon Thorgaard, Ambassador of the Kingdom of Denmark to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his assumption of duty. Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed Danish Ambassador to Thailand, and expressed pleasure with cordial relations between the two countries as this year marks the 165th anniversary of the diplomatic relations. He also congratulated the success of Denmark’s general election which took place in November 2022, and conveyed his regards to the incumbent Prime Minister of Denmark H.E. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen. Thailand stands ready to provide support to the Ambassador during his tenure in the country.
The Danish Ambassador expressed pleasure to be tenured in Thailand, and committed to further tighten relations and cooperation in the areas of shared potential, especially trade and investment. Currently, over 100 Danish businesses have been operating in Thailand, and more are considering Thailand as their production base. The country also ranks in top 3 as tourist destinations the Danish are interested to visit the most in the post-COVID-19 era.
Both parties also discussed other issues of mutual interest:
The Prime Minister was pleased to reinforce agricultural cooperation with Denmark, as both countries may exchange knowledge and personnel in agriculture. He also emphasized Thailand’s commitment to the reduction of methane emissions in agricultural sector, on which the Ambassador agreed to liaise with concerned Danish counterparts. He also informed that Denmark’s Minister of Food, Agriculture and Fisheries is scheduled to visit Thailand soon to further forge agricultural cooperation.
On renewal energy and green economic cooperation, the Danish Ambassador commended the Bangkok Goals, adopted at the APEC Leaders’ Meeting in Thailand. The BCG Economic Model reflects Thailand’s potentiality and commitment to promote clean energy, which is in line with the Danish Government’s policy to protect environment, in parallel with economic development, through sustainable use of resources and production and exchange of environmentally-friendly products and services. Denmark is pleased to share related experiences and innovations with Thailand. The Prime Minister also took the opportunity to welcome Denmark’s energy investment in Thailand.
On bilateral and multilateral cooperation, the Prime Minister expressed confidence that the two countries have potential to expand cooperation to other regions under the ASEAN and EU frameworks. Thailand is pleased with Denmark’s ASEAN partnership, especially in the latter’s areas of expertise, i.e., environmental technology, waste management, clean energy, food technology, and green transition. Under the EU framework, Thailand signed the Comprehensive Partnership and Cooperation Agreement (PCA) at the ASEAN - EU Commemorative Summit, held earlier in Brussels, Belgium. The Ambassador expressed confidence that the two countries would well contribute to the reinforcement of cooperation in all areas in a systematic manner, especially under the ASEAN framework and in the green economy for the interest of the global community.
At the end of the meeting, the Ambassador asked the Prime Minister about Thailand’s upcoming general election. The Prime Minister emphasized that regardless of whom would be elected to take over national administration, the most important thing is to create as many as opportunities for the people to minimize disparity, and ensure justice in the society. Public understanding needs to be created in accordance with the diplomatic principle.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/64578