รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on October 15, 2024


วันจันทร์ที่ 28 ตุลาคม 2567
28/10/2567
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on October 15, 2024
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Prime Minister’s Office Announcement on Measures for Prevention and Suppression of Trafficking in Persons in Business Establishments, Factories, and Vehicles
The cabinet approved the draft Prime Minister’s Office Announcement on Measures for Prevention and Suppression of Trafficking in Persons in Business Establishments, Factories, and Vehicles, and ordered for the draft announcement to proceed. This is as proposed by Ministry of Social Development and Human Security.
Gist
The draft Prime Minister’s Office Announcement on Measures for Prevention and Suppression of Trafficking in Persons in Business Establishments, Factories, and Vehicles stipulates that Ministry of Social Development and Human Security, Ministry of Labor, and government agencies related to business establishments, factories, and vehicles under the law, shall supervise and ensure that business owners and operators provide information to their workers or service recipients on compliance with measures to prevent and suppress human trafficking in business establishments, factories, and vehicles at least once a year, allow workers to be in contact with external individuals, and help them in cases of allegation regarding human trafficking or forced labor.
Title: Outcomes of 4/2024 Meeting of Emergency Situation Administration Committee
The cabinet approved the proposal of the Emergency Situation Administration Committee to extend declaration of serious emergency situation in Narathiwat Province, except for Yi-ngo, Su-ngai Kolok, Waeng and Sukhirin districts; Pattani Province, except for Yaring, Panare, Mayo, Mai Kaen, Thung Yang Daeng, Kapho and Mae Lan districts; and Yala Province, except for Betong, Raman, Kabang and Krong Pinang districts, for another 3 months from October 20, 2024 to January 19, 2025 for continued operation in timely preventing, intercepting, and stopping local situations, as well as arresting and interrogating violent instigating suspects in the Southern border area.
Title: Request for approval of contract for technical assistance under Thailand Integrated Logistics and Intermodal Transport Development Plan
The cabinet approved contract for technical assistance under Thailand Integrated Logistics and Intermodal Transport Development Plan provided by the U.S. Trade and Development Agency. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist, Ministry of Transport may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Director General of Office of Transport and Traffic Policy and Planning is authorized as signatory of the draft contract. This is as proposed by Ministry of Transport.
Gist
The draft contract for technical assistance under Thailand Integrated Logistics and Intermodal Transport Development Plan is a continued grant in aid given to Thailand by the U.S. Trade and Development Agency for the total amount of USD1,360,740 for the implementation of Thailand Integrated Logistics and Intermodal Transport Development Plan, which will help promote Thailand as regional transport hub.
Title: Draft Minutes for 6th Thailand-Philippines Joint Committee for Bilateral Cooperation
The cabinet approved the draft Minutes for 6th Thailand-Philippines Joint Committee for Bilateral Cooperation. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Foreign Affairs is authorized to adopt the minutes at the meeting on October 18, 2024. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
Thailand will host the 6th Thailand-Philippines Joint Committee for Bilateral Cooperation on October 18, 2024 in Bangkok, with Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the two countries as co-chairs. The draft Minutes for 6th Thailand-Philippines Joint Committee for Bilateral Cooperation prescribes joint intent to tighten relations and cooperation in a comprehensive manner in various areas, i.e., politics and security, economic cooperation, investment, tourism, energy, among others.
Title: Draft Joint Statement of APEC Finance Minister’s Meeting 2024
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Joint Statement of APEC Finance Minister’s Meeting 2024. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Finance may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet Minister of Finance or a representative is authorized to adopt the draft statement. This is as proposed by Ministry of Finance.
Gist
The APEC Finance Minister’s Meeting 2024 will be host by the Republic of Peru on October 21, 2024. The joint statement prescribes

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/89590