รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand and Brunei to work together and support each other under ASEAN and multilateral frameworks


วันพุธที่ 7 ธันวาคม 2565
พิมพ์
Thailand and Brunei to work together and support each other under ASEAN and multilateral frameworks
Thailand and Brunei to work together and support each other under ASEAN and multilateral frameworks
December 7, 2022, at 09.30hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Pengiran Haji Sahari bin Pengiran Haji Salleh, Ambassador of Brunei Darussalam to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his assumption of the position. Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed back the ambassador to Thailand as this is his 2nd tenure in the country, and affirmed the Thai Government’s commitment to provide full support. He also expressed confidence that relations between the two countries would be well advanced and tightened with the Ambassador’s experiences and expertise. The Prime Minister also conveyed his profound gratitude toward the Sultan of Brunei Darussalam and Prince Abdul Mateen for their attendance at the 29th APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting, and the royal support provided to Thailand’s hosting of the APEC 2022. He hoped that outcomes of the APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting would pave ways and opportunities to private sector of the APEC economies and ASEAN member countries in a sustainable manner.
The Bruneian Ambassador expressed pleasure to meet with the Prime Minister today, and congratulated Thailand’s success as host of the APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting. He also commended the country’s effective response to COVID-19 which has led to economic recovery and revival of tourism activities. Relations between Thailand and Brunei have been close and cordial with constant exchange of high-level visits, both at the royal family and the government levels. Brunei wishes to seek further cooperation with Thailand in the areas of the latter’s expertise, especially agriculture, livestock, trade and investment, and tourism, and to learn from Thailand on developing community businesses.
Both parties agreed that it is important for Thailand and Brunei to strengthen relations and cooperation amidst the changing global situation and challenges, and to support each other at the international stage. The two countries should join hands in promoting food security and energy security. Thailand stands ready to share its experiences and expertise on agriculture, livestock, aquaculture, healthcare tourism, and Halal food production. The Bruneian Ambassador was of the view that there are plenty of potentials for the two countries to tighten cooperation, especially in the areas of trade and investment, tourism, cultural exchange, labor, and empowerment of grassroots economy.
On multilateral cooperation, Thailand stands ready to cooperate with Brunei to reinforce the ASEAN Community. The Prime Minister commended Brunei’s success on ASEAN chairmanship last year. The Ambassador affirmed Brunei’s commitment to forge cooperation with Thailand under the ASEAN framework and to support each other at the international stage.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/62427