รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand and Singapore to reinforce cooperation in energy, financial sector, and food security


วันศุกร์ที่ 13 ตุลาคม 2566
Thailand and Singapore to reinforce cooperation in energy, financial sector, and food security
Thailand and Singapore to reinforce cooperation in energy, financial sector, and food security
October 12, 2023, at 1100hrs (Singapore local time), at the Istana (office of the President of the Republic of Singapore), Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin attended an official welcoming ceremony before paying a courtesy call on H.E. Mr. Tharman Shanmugaratnam, President of the Republic of Singapore, and having a bilateral meeting with H.E. Mr. Lee Hsien Loong, Singaporean Prime Minister. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of the meetings as follows:
During the courtesy call on Singaporean President, the Prime Minister mentioned tightening of cooperation in mutually potential areas, such as energy, food and agro products, finance and investment. Thailand would like to invite Singaporean businesses to invest in Thailand in Data Center, which would contribute to the country’s economic advancement. Singapore is Thailand’s good friend and close partner, and the latter stands ready to further strengthen friendship and cooperation in all areas of mutual interest through leveraging existing bilateral cooperation mechanisms.
In his discussion with the Prime Minister of Singapore, the following agendas were raised:
The Prime Minister hoped to expand bilateral trade and investment cooperation, as well as the cooperation in new economies, i.e., digital economy, green industry, the Green Bond, and hi-tech industries. He also congratulated post-COVID-19 recovery, as the two countries are vying for economic advancement, especially in tourism. Thailand and Singapore committed to work together to push forward economic growth and national development. The Singaporean Prime Minister also congratulated the success of PromptPay – PayNow linkage.
Both parties agreed on the need to reinforce cooperation in energy, financial sector, and food security. Thailand affirmed its commitment to support Singapore in food security, and to facilitate export of Thai food and agro products to the country.
The two Prime Ministers also came to terms with new forms of business development cooperation, such as green economy and trade, to keep up with global changes. ASEAN is already supported with development infrastructures, and the Thai private sector is also keen to venture into new areas of investment, and to build on existing businesses. Nevertheless, traditional cooperation remains important to both Thailand and Singapore. The Prime Minister was of the view that the ASEAN-GCC meeting be held to discuss wide-ranging topics, including security and economic development.
The Prime Minister also took the opportunity to invite the Singaporean Prime Minister to visit Thailand at their first convenient opportunity.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/73324