รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on November 8, 2022


วันจันทร์ที่ 14 พฤศจิกายน 2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on November 8, 2022
The cabinet met on November 8, 2022. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation prescribing state agency eligible for the request of administration actions from judicial officers (No. …), B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation prescribing state agency eligible for the request of administration actions from judicial officers (No. …), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Education.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation prescribes Thai Health Promotion Foundation as state agencies eligible for the request of administration actions from judicial officers in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, B.E. 2539 (1996) and the revised Administrative Procedure Act (No. 3), B.E. 2562 (2019).
Title: Report on the Industrial Economics Status for August 2022
The cabinet acknowledged Industrial Economic Report for August 2022 as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
Based on the report, manufacturing production index (MPI) expanded by 14.5% YOY thanks to the very low base last year during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Key industries that contributed to the contraction were petroleum refinery (+17.6%), automotive (+63.37%), production of airconditioner and parts (+54.62%), electronics and parts (+15.61%), and motorcycle production (+131.01%)
Title: Request for approval on ASEAN-China Joint Statement on Food Security Cooperation
The cabinet approved the following proposals made by Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives:
Approved ASEAN-China Joint Statement on Food Security Cooperation to be adopted at the 40th and 41st ASEAN summits and related summits. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
The Prime Minister or a representative is authorized to adopt the ASEAN-China Joint Statement on Food Security Cooperation
Gist
ASEAN-China Joint Statement on Food Security Cooperation prescribes ASEAN and China’s commitment to further strengthen their policy communication, exchanges and cooperation as contributors to regional and global food security. Cooperation includes improving business environment within the region for closer cooperation across the value chain, strengthen the role of the ASEAN Food Security Information System (AFSIS) in data collection on regional commodity crops and disaster monitoring and early warning, and enhancing national and regional capacity of agricultural production and supply, among others.
The ASEAN-China Joint Statement on Food Security Cooperation emphasizes the importance to deepen the cooperation between central governments, local governments, regional organizations and the UN agencies such as the FAO, and mechanisms such as the ASEAN-China Agricultural Cooperation Forum. It also aims to promote collaboration between the public sector, private sector, academia and civil society, and pool the strengths and commitments of stakeholders through such activities as policy dialogue, joint research, project implementation, capacity building, and personnel exchanges, in order to jointly safeguard regional food security.
Title: Request for approval on Ministerial Declaration on Digital Cooperation for Shaping Our Common Future
The cabinet approved the following proposals made by Ministry of Digital Economy and Society:
Approved Ministerial Declaration on Digital Cooperation for Shaping Our Common Future. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Digital Economy and Society may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet, and inform the cabinet later on the amendment.
Ministrer of Digital Economy and Society or a representative is authorized to adopt the Ministerial Declaration on Digital Cooperation for Shaping Our Common Future
Gist
Ministerial Declaration on Digital Cooperation for Shaping Our Common Future will be adopted at the Asia - Pacific Digital Ministerial Conference 2022 to be hosted by South Korea’s Ministry of Science and ICT, in collaboration with UNESCAP, in Seoul, South Korea on November 10.
Ministerial Declaration on Digital Cooperation for Shaping Our Common Future prescribes digital cooperation of the Asia-Pacific countries in 6 areas:
Network: Expanding investment in digital infrastructure network and sharing best practices to ensure widespread access to safe, secure, and affordable connectivity in the Asia-Pacific.
Ethics: Using emerging digital technologies and AI for the benefit of human quality development.
Data use: Developing fair and legitimate access to digital information, promoting use of data to enhance socio-economic value, and linking public and personal data to create database for decision-making.
Workforce development: Incubating digital native generations, enhancing digital capacity of regional workforce for security and sustainability of digital ecosystem development.
International cooperation: promoting consensus and cooperation among stakeholders of various groups, i.e., public, industrial, and civil society sectors, and international community.
Others: Ministerial Declaration on Digital Cooperation for Shaping Our Common Future will be presented at the 79th Session of UNESCAP. Digital ministerial meeting will be held on a regular basis
The Ministerial Declaration on Digital Cooperation for Shaping Our Common Future is an important step forward for Thailand to cooperate with the international community in creating awareness on the importance of digital technology to human life and industrial, political, socio-economic and cultural development. Under the Declaration, participating Asia-Pacific countries will affirm their commitment to promote digital cooperation through the building of secure, safe, and accountable digital ecosystem which is accessible to all.
Title: Request for approval on outcome documents to be signed or adopted at 40th and 41st ASEAN summits and related summits
The cabinet approved 18 outcome documents to be signed or adopted at 40th and 41st ASEAN summits and related summits (16 to be adopted by the Prime Minister or a representative; 1 to be signed by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs or a representative, and the other to be signed by ASEAN Secretary-General).
Gist
The outcome documents to be adopted by the Prime Minister are:
Draft ASEAN Leaders’ Statement on the 55th Anniversary of ASEAN
Draft ASEAN Leaders’ Vision Statement on “ASEAN A.C.T.: Addressing Challenges Together”
Draft ASEAN Leaders’ Statement on ASEAN Connectivity Post-2025 Agenda
Draft ASEAN Leaders’ Declaration on Mainstreaming Four Priority Areas of the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific within ASEAN-led Mechanisms
Draft ASEAN Master Plan on Rural Development 2022 to 2026
Draft ASEAN Leaders’ Declaration on Ending Inequalities and Getting on Track to End AIDS by 2030
Draft ASEAN Regional Plan of Action on Women, Peace and Security
Draft Joint Statement on the 20th Anniversary of the Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea
Draft ASEAN-China Joint Statement on Promoting Common Development
Draft ASEAN-U.S. Leaders’ Statement to Establish the ASEAN-U.S. Comprehensive Strategic Partnership
Draft ASEAN-Canada 45th  Anniversary Commemorative Summit Joint Statement
Draft Joint Statement on ASEAN-Indo Comprehensive Strategic Partnership
Draft Joint Statement of the 2nd ASEAN-Australia Summit on Cooperation on the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific
Draft East Asia Summit Leaders’ Statement on Advancing Women’s Economic Empowerment
Draft East Asia Summit Leaders’ Statement on Strengthening Energy Cooperation for a Comprehensive Post-COVID-19 Recovery
Draft East Asia Summit Leaders’ Statement on Promoting Volunteerism for Sustainable Development
Outcome document to be signed by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs or a representative is: Draft Letter of Consent for the Accession to the Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in Southeast Asia (TAC) by the Kingdom of Spain
Outcome document to be signed by ASEAN Secretary-General is: Draft Agreement on Technical Cooperation between the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and the Government of the People’s Republic of China.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/61628