รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM orders concerned agencies to closely follow up on post-Songkran COVID-19 situation


วันอังคารที่ 18 เมษายน 2566
18/04/2566
พิมพ์
​PM orders concerned agencies to closely follow up on post-Songkran COVID-19 situation
​PM orders concerned agencies to closely follow up on post-Songkran COVID-19 situation
April 16, 2023, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that Prime Minister and Minister of Defense Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha has ordered concerned agencies to closely follow up on the COVID-19 situation, as Department of Disease Control’s Division of Epidemiology has expected an increase in the number of infected cases after Songkran Holidays due to an increase of activities, traveling, and interactions between people. The public is urged to comply with public health measures, and avoid close contact with the elderlies and those with people with chronic illnesses.
According to the Department of Disease Control, the number of COVID-19 infected patients has notably increased during April 9-15, 2023, as the total of 435 new hospitalized cases, or 62 per day, was recorded, which is 2.5 times more than the previous week. There were 30 active case patients who have developed pneumonia, 19 of whom were on ventilators, an increase of 58% and 36% respectively. Two deaths were recorded in the latest week, both of whom received a booster dose more than 3 months ago.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Prime Minister expressed concern over the people’s wellbeing, and ordered concerned agencies to closely monitor COVID-19 situation, especially the spread of XBB.1.16 variant. Those who traveled are urged to monitor their condition at least 7 days, and wear face mask and wash hands regularly. People in the risk groups, especially the elderlies and those with people with chronic illnesses, are strongly advised to receive a booster dose at a nearby medical facility. More information can be obtained via Department of Disease Control’s Hotline 1422.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/67362