รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thai economy in Q1/2023 improves mainly thanks to increase of foreign and Thai tourists


วันจันทร์ที่ 22 พฤษภาคม 2566
22/05/2566
พิมพ์
Thai economy in Q1/2023 improves mainly thanks to increase of foreign and Thai tourists
Thai economy in Q1/2023 improves mainly thanks to increase of foreign and Thai tourists
May 22, 2023, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed about the Government’s effort to implement economic policies through various schemes and measures, which include tourism promotion. According to the report of the Bank of Thailand, Thai economy in the first quarter of 2023 fares better than the previous quarter thanks to the improvement in both foreign and Thai tourists which bolstered services and private consumption. The first quarter of 2023 also saw an export increase which is in line with manufacturing production and private investment. Public spending expanded from both current and capital expenditures by the Government, whereas investment expenditures of state-owned enterprises contracted from the same period last year. With regard to economic stability, headline and core inflation decreased mainly due to the high base effect from last year. Labor market continues to improve in line with the economic recovery. The current account recorded higher surplus due to an increase in tourism revenue, while surplus in the trade balance remains close to the previous quarter.
The Government Spokesperson reiterated that tourism has become key driving force for Thai economic recovery since the 2nd half of 2022 when the COVID-19 outbreak subsided and various countries including Thailand gradually lifted international travel restrictions. The Bank of Thailand reported that Thai tourism is heading towards pre-COVID levels of 40 million foreign tourists and tourism income of 1.9 trillion baht (11% of GDP). This is reflected in demand-side indicators such as foreign tourist arrivals in March 2023 of approximately71,000 persons per day (63% of 2019) as well as supply-side indicators such as seat capacity of international flights to Thailand and hotel reservations which have continued to recover.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/68418