รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM: Govt and Royal Thai Armed Forces share common position in protecting Thailand’s sovereignty


วันอังคารที่ 17 มิถุนายน 2568
17/06/2568
พิมพ์
PM: Govt and Royal Thai Armed Forces share common position in protecting Thailand’s sovereignty
PM: Govt and Royal Thai Armed Forces share common position in protecting Thailand’s sovereignty
June 16, 2025, Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed about the press conference led by Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra, together with Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense Phumtham Wechayachai, Minister of Foreign Affairs Maris Sangiampongsa, Deputy Minister of Defense Gen. Nattaphon Narkphanit, Chief of the Defense Forces, and Commanders-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, following a meeting of security authorities regarding Thailand-Cambodia border situation at Phitsanulok Mansion.
According to the Prime Minister, the latest meeting of the Thailand-Cambodia Joint Boundary Commission (JBC) was considered a progress in terms of building understanding between the two countries. Thailand will set up a “Team Thailand” as a special working group led by the Deputy Minister of Defense, to liaise and follow up on related updates and security information. The Prime Minister reaffirmed that Thailand would not accept the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice (ICJ) nor would take any action beyond the scope of bilateral frameworks agreed upon. The Thai Government’s legal team is ready to protect the country’s interest.
The Prime Minister also denied border closure. It is only the operating hours that are adjusted according to the security situation, especially after Cambodia has deployed heavy weapons in several areas near the Thai border. Thailand notified the Cambodian counterpart of its preference for military-level discussions in a bid to ensure border orderliness and the least impact on people of the two countries.
The Prime Minister expressed concern over Cambodia’s unceasing statements, especially those via social medias which is beyond the scope of international agreements, emphasizing that dissemination of information that has not been bilaterally discussed may affect international relations and is not beneficial to either party. Thailand prioritizes the interests of people in the border areas, especially their economic wellbeing, and orderliness of the border communities. The Thai Government will only pursue discussions within the JBC and RBC (Regional Border Committee) frameworks with each procedure of the discussions being officially recorded and internationally accountable.
In the afternoon of June 16, the diplomatic corps will be summoned by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to ensure common understanding on Thailand’s stance in adhering to the principles of international negotiation and international laws. The Prime Minister also affirmed that the Government and the military share a common position to protect Thailand’s sovereignty, and avoid conflicts and military confrontations. The Prime Minister called on the Thai people to be confident on Thailand’s strength and dignity as an independent state, and to support the Government’s and the military’s endeavor in maintaining peace and protect national interest in a sustainable manner.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/97534