รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand and Germany to continue advancing relations and cooperation in all aspects


วันจันทร์ที่ 3 กรกฎาคม 2566
03/07/2566
พิมพ์
Thailand and Germany to continue advancing relations and cooperation in all aspects
Thailand and Germany to continue advancing relations and cooperation in all aspects
June 30, 2023, at 1330hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Georg Schmidt, Ambassador of the Federal Republic of Germany to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his completion of tenure. Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister commended the German Ambassador’s constructive role in strengthening relations between the two countries throughout the 5 years of his tenure in Thailand with his insightful knowledge on Thai culture and ways of life. The year 2022 marked the 160th anniversary of diplomatic relations, on occasion of which various activities were held to celebrate. The Prime Minister expressed hope that the incoming German Ambassador would continue to follow suit.
The German Ambassador expressed pleasure to have been tenured in Thailand, and committed to continue working on Thailand- Germany relations promotion. He also commended cooperation dynamism between the two countries, especially in climate action, and affirmed his country’s commitment to tighten cooperation in this area.
Both parties also came to terms on the potential to expand economic cooperation. The Prime Minister was of the view that a joint committee meeting on economic, energy (including clean energy), and technical cooperation be held soon. He also requested the German Ambassador to encourage German investment in the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC), especially in Bio-Circular-Green Economy which Germany has expertise, and affirmed EEC’s physical, digital, and infrastructural readiness. Germany was also called on to endorse FTA between Thailand and EU to attract more European investment in Thailand. The German Ambassador affirmed German’s commitment to further promote mutual trade and investment activities, and commended Thailand’s potentiality to accommodate German investment in the country. He was also pleased to push forward FTA between Thailand and EU for mutual interest.
On sustainable development cooperation, the Prime Minister thanked the German Government and concerned agencies for providing support to several development projects and related trilateral projects in Thailand, and marveled the German Ambassador for his leading role in promoting sustainable development in Thailand through his support on the use of electric vehicle (EV), an experiment on alternating wet and dry rice cultivation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and waste recycling campaign, as well as on various other activities held under the theme: “Sustainable Development Partnership” to mark the 160th anniversary of diplomatic relations.
The Prime Minister also thanked Germany for providing medicines, vaccines, and medical devices and supplies to support Thailand’s fight against the spread of COVID-19 pandemic since 2021, including the most recent provision of 999,360 doses of vaccines on June 22, 2023. The Ambassador commended the Prime Minister’s policy and the Thai Government’ effective
measures in tackling the COVID-19 situation, and affirmed Germany’s commitment to continue forging public health relations and cooperation with Thailand.
Toward the end of the meeting, both parties exchanged views on challenging issues of mutual interest. The Prime Minister emphasized the Government’s intent to lay foundation for long-term national development as a preparation against future challenges and changes. The Ambassador also expressed hope for the orderliness of Thailand’s post-election political situation, while the Prime Minister affirmed that Thai political situation would be progressed in accordance with the diplomatic process and humanitarian principle.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/69907