รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Medical team dispatched under “Health for Hajj” to provide healthcare services to Thai pilgrims


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 1 พฤษภาคม 2568
01/05/2568
พิมพ์
​Medical team dispatched under “Health for Hajj” to provide healthcare services to Thai pilgrims
​Medical team dispatched under “Health for Hajj” to provide healthcare services to Thai pilgrims
May 1, 2025, Deputy Government Spokesperson Kharom Phonpornklang disclosed that Ministry of Public Health will dispatch a team of medical personnel to accompany and accommodate Thai Muslims traveling for the Hajj pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia. This year a total of 6,603 Thai pilgrims, out of Thailand’s annual Hajj Quota of 13,000, are set to travel to Mecca to attend the Hajj during April 29 and June 2, 2025, and their return period will be June 12 – July 7, 2025. Prior to their departure, all the pilgrims will be provided with healthcare advice, undergo health screening processes, and receive influenza and meningococcal disease vaccinations.
Each year, the Government has placed importance on healthcare provision to the Thai Muslims traveling for the Hajj pilgrimage under the concept “Health for Hajj”. This year, the team of medical personnel comprises 7 doctors, 3 pharmacists, 15 nurses, 2 healthcare staff, a total of 27 people. The team will be divided into 2 groups. The first group, consisting of 15 people, will be on duty between April 28 and June 23, 2025. The second group, consisting of 3 doctors, 2 pharmacists, 6 nurses, and 1 public healthcare staff, a total of 12 people, will take charge between May 13 and July 8, 2025.
The medical team will be stationed in 2 cities: Mecca and Madinah, and a mobile medical unit will standby to provide healthcare services and risk monitoring at the plains of Arafat and Muzdalifah. Upon returning to Thailand, the pilgrims will be required to undergo health surveillance process for 14-30 days to monitor their health against the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS-CoV) and other infectious diseases.
According to the Deputy Government Spokesperson, the “Health for Hajj” not only demonstrates the Government’s commitment to provide healthcare services to Thai people of all religions, it also promotes cooperation and relations, especially in healthcare, between Thailand and Saudi Arabia, aside from the ongoing economic, trade and investment, food security, energy, tourism and cultural cooperation.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/95971