รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met via a video conference on June 8, 2021


วันศุกร์ที่ 11 มิถุนายน 2564
พิมพ์
The cabinet met via a video conference on June 8, 2021
The cabinet met via a video conference on June 8, 2021
The cabinet met via a video conference on June 8, 2021. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulations prescribing Industrial Standard, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle two draft Ministerial Regulation prescribing Industrial Standard, B.E. … (Ministerial Regulation prescribing Industrial Standard for Portland Cement, B.E. …, and Ministerial Regulation prescribing Industrial Standard for White Portland Cement, B.E. …), as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
The Ministerial Regulation prescribing Industrial Standard for Portland Cement, B.E. …, and Ministerial Regulation prescribing Industrial Standard for White Portland Cement, B.E. …, were approved under the Industrial Product Standards Act, B.E. 2511.
Title: Draft Commerce Ministerial Announcement on revocation of Commerce Ministerial Announcement on certificate requirement and administrative measures for importation of 3-D printers into the kingdom, B.E. 2559, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Commerce Ministerial Announcement on revocation of Commerce Ministerial Announcement on certificate requirement and administrative measures for importation of 3-D printers into the kingdom, B.E. 2559, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Commerce.
Gist
The draft Commerce Ministerial Announcement on revocation of Commerce Ministerial Announcement on certificate requirement and administrative measures for importation of 3-D printers into the kingdom, B.E. 2559, B.E. …, has been approved with an aim to streamline related business operations, and address law redundancy, as 3-D printer product standards have already been stipulated in the Trade Control on Weapons of Mass Destruction related Items Act, B.E. 2562.
Title: Request for the FY2021 budget (contingency fund for emergency) for procurement of machineries to address flood and drought problems
The cabinet approved 426.472 million Baht from the FY2021 budget (contingency fund for emergency) for procurement of machineries to address flood and drought problems. This is as proposed by Office of National Water Resources.
Gist
The budget of 426.472 million Baht will be used for procurement of 32 hydraulic pumps in a bid to address flood and drought disaster.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/42638