รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM to pay inspection visit to MRT Pink Line before trial run


วันอาทิตย์ที่ 9 กรกฎาคม 2566
PM to pay inspection visit to MRT Pink Line before trial run
PM to pay inspection visit to MRT Pink Line before trial run
July 9, 2023, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that on July 10, 2023, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha is scheduled to pay an inspection visit to the MRT Pink Line before its trial run to ensure readiness and safety. He will be accompanied by Minister of Interior Gen. Anupong Paojinda, Minister Attached to the Prime Minister Office Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana, and Deputy Minister of Transport Atirat Ratanasate. The Prime Minister’s schedule is as follows:
At 13.30 hrs, the Prime Minister will arrive at Min Buri Station, and listen to the briefing on the MRT Pink Line Project: Khae Rai – Min Buri Section by the Governor of Mass Rapid Transit Authority of Thailand, before inspecting the Station’s connecting point with the future Orange Line (Thailand Cultural Center-Min Buri). He will, then, participate in the Pink Line 30-minute test run, starting from Min Buri Station (PK30) to the Government Complex Station (PK12), and get off at Lad Pla Khao Station (PK18).
The Pink Line mass transit system (Khae Rai - Min Buri) is one of the mass transits planned in Mass Rapid Transit Master Plan in Bangkok Metropolitan under the responsibility of the Mass Rapid Transit Authority of Thailand (MRTA). It is an elevated straddle type monorail transit with 30 stations and the total distance of 34.5km. The Pink Line connects with the Purple line MRT (Bang Yai – Bang sue), and the MRT Orange Line (Taling Chan - Min Buri), and there is a park and ride building at Min Buri station. As of the end of June 2023, the Line is 96.97% complete for its civil works, 97.34% for the electric train system, and 97.15% for the overall progress.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/70129