รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with Vietnamese Foreign Minister


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 11 เมษายน 2567
PM meets with Vietnamese Foreign Minister
PM meets with Vietnamese Foreign Minister
April 11, 2024, at 10.00 hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Bui Thanh Son, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin on occasion of his official visit to Thailand as guest of the Thai Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister was pleased with the constant dynamism of Thailand – Vietnam relations, and affirmed his readiness to pay an official visit to Vietnam in June 2024 to cochair the 4th Joint Cabinet Retreat (JCR), particularly to discuss mutual cooperation under the ACMECS framework. He was of the view that Thailand and Vietnam have potential as ASEAN’s economic drivers, and closer cooperation should be forged between the two countries to promote peace together with regional economic advancement.
The Vietnamese Foreign Minister expressed honor to meet with the Prime Minister during the Songkran Festival or a Thai New Year, and congratulated the Thai Government’s success in its economic recovery endeavor. He was confident that the Prime Minister would further enhance Thailand’s role in promoting regional economy. Vietnam is ready to welcome the Prime Minister in his official visit to the country, which would be a good opportunity to elevate relations between the two countries to “Comprehensive Strategic Partnership”, and reinforce trade and investment cooperation, as well as to work together in promoting the region’s tourism industry.
Both parties also discussed issues of mutual interest:
On trade and investment, the Prime Minister thanked Vietnam for facilitating Thailand’s transport of goods, especially fruits export to China, at the Vietnam – China border. The Vietnamese Foreign Minister was pleased with mutual trade value which is on the rise, and affirmed Vietnam’s commitment to work together with Thailand in continuing to increase mutual trade value and facilitate goods export of the two countries.
With regard to tourism cooperation, the Prime Minister agreed on an establishment of flights between major tourism cities of the two countries. Thailand would be pleased to discuss the “Six Countries, One Destination” scheme which will attract more tourists and promote all the countries in the region as one tourism destination. The Prime Minister also proposed an increase of direct flights from Udon Thani International Airport, on which Vietnam agreed to consider. The two parties came to terms on the potentiality of Thailand and Vietnam as the region’s leaders in tourism and logistics development. The Vietnamese Foreign Minister was also pleased to learn that the Prime Minister got a chance to visit Ho Chi Minh Museum in Nakhon Phanom province in February, which impressed the Vietnamese people.
On regional infrastructure development, both countries will join forces in improving regional infrastructure, especially road connectivity between Thailand, Lao PDR, and Vietnam, in a bid to facilitate trade and investment activities and to promote people-to-people exchange and tourism.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/81668