รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand and Canada to further strengthen cooperation in a comprehensive manner


วันจันทร์ที่ 20 พฤศจิกายน 2566
Thailand and Canada to further strengthen cooperation in a comprehensive manner
Thailand and Canada to further strengthen cooperation in a comprehensive manner
November 16, 2023, at 1030hrs (San Francisco, U.S.A. local time), Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin had a bilateral meeting with the Right Honourable Justin Trudeau, Prime Minister of Canada, during the 30th APEC Economic Leaders' Week (AELW). Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
Both the leaders hoped to increase bilateral cooperation in a comprehensive manner, and expressed concern over the current global situation. They also believed that APEC would be a good opportunity for leaders of member economies to meet and promote cooperation and create new opportunities.
The Prime Minister emphasized that Thailand is ready to be back in business, and welcomes foreign investments. The current global situation has resulted in an increasing relocation of production base to the ASEAN region, such as to Thailand, and Vietnam. More and more leading private firms have chosen Thailand as their EVs manufacturing base. The Prime Minister had also chance to meet with several private companies who agreed to consider moving their investment base to the country. Thailand can provide them with a number of investment privileges and investment promotions in line with their needs.
The Canadian Prime Minister expressed readiness to cooperate with the Thai Government at both bilateral and regional levels to build on relation dynamism and cooperation in various areas. Canada's Indo-Pacific Strategy offers a comprehensive framework for the Government of Canada to work together with others, including Thailand. With the current global situation, the private sector should enhance capacity and resilience in its production, as well as tighten deeper cooperation with the foreign counterparts. Thailand is Canada’s important trade partner. However, FTA between the two countries is now under negotiation, and has yet to be finalized. The two Prime Ministers came to terms that both countries could leverage the FTA once it is up and running for mutual interest.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/74962