รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on October 16, 2023.


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 26 ตุลาคม 2566
26/10/2566
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on October 16, 2023.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Unilateral and temporary exemption of tourist visa for holders of Russian passports or
travel documents
The cabinet approved in principle the proposal of Ministry of Foreign Affairs on an inclusion of “The
Russian Federation” in the list of countries under Ministry of Interior’s Announcement on list of
countries whose passport/travel document holders shall be unilaterally and temporarily exempted
tourist visa for entering the Kingdom for a period not exceeding 90 days from 1 November 2023 to 30
April 2024.
Gist
Unilateral and temporary exemption of tourist visa for holders of Russian passports or travel
documents to stay in the Kingdom for a period not exceeding 90 days from 1 November 2023 to 30
April 2024 is aimed to promote longer stay of Russian tourists during the high season, and to enhance
people-to-people ties between Thailand and Russia.
Title: Draft Memorandum of Understanding between Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the
Kingdom of Thailand and National Development and Reform Commission of People's
Republic of China on Cooperation Mechanism for Promotion of the Belt and Road Initiative
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Foreign Affairs:
1. Approved the draft Memorandum of Understanding between Ministry of Foreign Affairs of
the Kingdom of Thailand and National Development and Reform Commission of People's
Republic of China on Cooperation Mechanism for Promotion of the Belt and Road Initiative.
Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest,
Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
2. Authorized Minister of Foreign Affairs or a representative as signatory of the MOU.
Gist
The draft Memorandum of Understanding between Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of
Thailand and National Development and Reform Commission of People's Republic of China on
Cooperation Mechanism for Promotion of the Belt and Road Initiative is aimed to establish a
cooperation mechanism under the Cooperation Plan between the Government of the Kingdom of
Thailand and the Government of the People’s Republic of China on Jointly Promoting the Silk
Road Economic Belt and the 21 st Century Maritime Silk Road, and prescribes related detail, such as
framework for implementation and operation.
Title: Request for approval on outcome document of High-Level Forum on Connectivity
during 3 rd Belt and Road Forum (BRF) for International Cooperation
The cabinet approved the draft outcome document of High-Level Forum on Connectivity during
3rd Belt and Road Forum (BRF) for International Cooperation. Should there be an amendment in
parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Transport may proceed without
having to resubmit to the cabinet.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Digital Economy and SOciet, Ministry of
Natural Resources and Environment, Ministry of Energy, Ministry of Commerce, Ministry of Interior,
and Ministry of Transport were ordered to work in an integrative and cooperative manner in
leveraging the implementation according to the outcome document.
Gist
People’s Republic of China hosted the High-Level Forum on Connectivity on October 18, 2023
during the 3 rd BRI for International Cooperation (October 17-18, 2023) in Beijing. The outcome
document prescribes:
1. Improving transportation infrastructure efficiency and connectivity
2. Promoting stable and sustainable energy development
3. Improving water management capacity
4. Promoting information infrastructure connectivity
5. Strengthening regulatory and standards connectivity
6. Encouraging proper international business environment
Title: Initiative on International Trade and Economic Cooperation Framework for Digital
Economy and Green Development
The cabinet approved the following proposal of Ministry of Commerce:
1. Approved the draft Initiative on International Trade and Economic Cooperation Framework
for Digital Economy and Green Development. Should there be an amendment in parts that
are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Commerce may proceed without
having to resubmit to the cabinet.
2. Approved for Minister of Commerce or a representative to adopt the draft Initiative on
International Trade and Economic Cooperation Framework for Digital Economy and Green
Development or send a note to China to confirm Thailand’s adoption of the document.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/73781