รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Marriage Equality Bill to be proposed to cabinet on Oct 31


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 26 ตุลาคม 2566
26/10/2566
พิมพ์
Marriage Equality Bill to be proposed to cabinet on Oct 31
Marriage Equality Bill to be proposed to cabinet on Oct 31
October 26, 2023, at 0930hrs, at the Green Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House,
Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin chaired a meeting to deliberate
Thailand’s Marriage Equality Bill / Gender Recognition Bill / revocation of prostitution
suppression / Bangkok’s bid to host Bangkok World Pride and Pride Parade / universal health
coverage for transgenders. Participating in the meeting were permanent secretaries of
concerned ministries, and representatives of concerned offices and organizations. Government
Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister expected that the matter (Thailand’s Marriage Equality Bill) be brought to
the cabinet meeting on October 31, 2023 for its deliberation, and to be reintroduced for the
Parliament’s scrutiny as the first agenda after convocation of its second annual ordinary session
in December. He also reaffirmed the Government’s commitment to push ahead the Marriage
Equality Bill and other related bills, and to liaise with all concerned agencies in order for the Bill
to get through. A roadmap will be drafted through broad discussion among all sectors. The
Prime Minister called on everyone to be patient.
He also mentioned about the issue of military conscription as most LGBTQ+ want to be excused
from service, saying that the Government is considering voluntary service system in lieu of
mandatory enlistment. It will also discuss with concerned agencies about revocation of
prostitution suppression to reach a best possible solution.
The Prime Minister affirmed the Government’s support for the country’s bid to host Bangkok
World Pride 2028 and the Pride Parade, which would showcase the country’s open-mindedness
and recognition of the matter, and would boost national economy. He also thanked all
concerned sector for useful suggestions and recommendations.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/73799