รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Cabinet approves delay on imposing Euro 5 emission standard on new vehicles


วันพุธที่ 22 กุมภาพันธ์ 2566
22/02/2566
พิมพ์
​Cabinet approves delay on imposing Euro 5 emission standard on new vehicles
​Cabinet approves delay on imposing Euro 5 emission standard on new vehicles
February 21, 2023, Deputy Government Spokesperson Ratchada Thanadirek disclosed that the cabinet approved the delay in imposing Euro 5 emission standard on newly manufactured vehicles, to be adopted as part of the Government’s action plan to drive the national agenda “solving the problem of particulate pollution”. The delay is made from the year 2021 to January 1, 2024 due to the spread of COVID-19 pandemic which has hindered private sector’s manufacturing plan and their compliance with the enforcement of Euro 5 emission standard in 2021. The cabinet also assigned Ministry of Industry to finalize the plan to impose Euro 6 emission standard on newly manufactured vehicles so that vehicle manufacturers will have time to prepare for the enforcement without impacting their operation plan.
Enforcement postponement of Euro 5 emission standard will practically allow the private sector to be ready for full compliance. Some of them have already manufactured new cars in accordance with the Euro 5 emission standard, while others are in the middle of revamping their manufacturing process. As for the incentives, Ministry of Finance has announced excise tax cut for passenger pickup vehicles that emit less than 0.0005 g./km of particulate matters (PM). Additionally, Ministry of Energy also made an announcement on gasoline quality equivalent to the Euro 5 standard.
According to the Deputy Government Spokesperson, Euro emission standard is the vehicle emission standard for pollution from the use of new vehicles in the European Union. Euro 1 emission standard came into force in 1992 in Europe. Thailand adopted Euro 1 emission standard in 1998, and continues to elevate the standard over the years to the currently-imposed Euro 4 in 2012. Euro 5 and 6 will further limit nitrogen oxide (NOx) and hydrocarbon (HC) emission, and put in place a particulate number standard (PN).

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/65293