รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM welcomes Thai-American youths to visit Thailand under “Thai Youths in the U.S. Visit Their Motherland” program


วันพุธที่ 5 กรกฎาคม 2566
05/07/2566
พิมพ์
PM welcomes Thai-American youths to visit Thailand under “Thai Youths in the U.S. Visit Their Motherland” program
PM welcomes Thai-American youths to visit Thailand under “Thai Youths in the U.S. Visit Their Motherland” program
July 4, 2023, at 1000hrs, at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House, Mr. Tor Saralamba, Thai Consul-General to Los Angeles, USA, and Mr. Damrith Wiriyakul, secretary of the “Thai Youths in the U.S. Visit Their Motherland” program, led a group of Thai-American youths, who are participants of the “2023 Thai Youths in the US Visit Their Motherland” program, to pay a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha. Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure to welcome the Thai-American youth group and parents back to their motherland for the first time in 4 years following the ease of COVID-19 situation. This will be a good opportunity for them to gain firsthand experiences on the land of their ancestors, get to know their roots, and learn about Thai ways of live and culture. The Prime Minister also emphasized the country’s stability during the political transition. In addition to pushing forward national development and implementing various economic and tourism policies, the Government strives to forge relations and cooperation with all partner countries, including the U.S., Thailand’s long-term friend. The group of Thai-American youths is urged to take part in promoting Thailand’s position at the global stage.
The Prime Minister also advised them to profess Thai language in order to increase future employment opportunity, as language skill is an essential skill in the nowadays world. He also called on the youths to get exposure to multicultural experiences, including Thai culture, as embracing diversity and accepting differences in others are fundamental to strong and peaceful society.
Toward the end of the meeting, the Prime Minister expressed hope that the Thai-American youths gain valuable knowledge and experiences in visiting Thailand this time. They are welcome to come back every year, and are encouraged to help promote Thailand and “Thainess”, and boost positive images of the country among their friends in the U.S. He also urged them to take pride in their heritage. Thai kids, no matter where they were born, should have the heart of Thais and uphold the nation, religion, and monarchy.
The project “Thai Youths in the US Visit Their Motherland” is the collaboration of the Asian Thai Youth Heritage Center, the Thai project committee, and the US project committee. The project is organized biennially with the aim to encourage Thai children who were born and raised in the U.S. to learn about Thai culture and tradition, and to take pride in their heritage. This time, the project marks 40th anniversary of its implementation. Participants include approx. 200 youths, parents, and the Thai media from 6 states, namely, Arizona, California, Georgia, Kansas, Nevada, and Texas.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/70002