รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​BCG Economy expected to generate 600 billion Baht in investment value


วันจันทร์ที่ 21 พฤศจิกายน 2565
พิมพ์
​BCG Economy expected to generate 600 billion Baht in investment value
​BCG Economy expected to generate 600 billion Baht in investment value
November 21, 2022, Deputy Government Spokesperson Ratchada Thanadirek disclosed that adoption of the “Bangkok Goals on Bio-Circular-Green (BCG) Economy” by APEC Economic Leaders at the 29th Leaders’ meeting in Bangkok is the ultimate success of Thailand’s hosting of APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting (AELW) this year. The Bangkok Goals on Bio-Circular-Green (BCG) Economy is a comprehensive framework for furthering APEC’s common objectives to promote regional growth in a strong, balanced, stable, and sustainable manner.
Areas of cooperation include: 1) collectively addressing climate change, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and achieving net zero / carbon neutrality; 2) progressing sustainable and inclusive trade and investment; 3) promoting environmental conservation, sustainable use and management of natural resources, as well as halting and reversing biodiversity loss; and 4) advancing resource efficiency and sustainable waste management towards zero waste.
Hosting AELW was also an opportunity for Thailand to demonstrate its potential in driving forward the BCG Economy, and to create public awareness on the country’s direction and way forward. The private sector, both the agricultural, industrial, and service sectors, has already incorporated the BCG Economy model in their business and investment through applying innovation to reduce GHG emission, use of clean energy, and adding value to agricultural products, e.g., clean food, herbal medicine, cosmetics, among others. Some of the successes were showcased during AELW, which have boosted confidence of foreign investors, especially in the areas that link with the BCG Economy model and investment in the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC).
The private sector is content with and commended the Government’s success on promoting the BCG Economy. The Government would also like to listen to comments and suggestions from all concerned sectors in implementing the BCG Economy toward tangible achievement. According to Center for International Trade Studies of the University of the Thai Chamber of Commerce, the Thai economy would be revitalized as a result of APEC 2022, with the projection of over 600 billion Baht in investment value under the BCG policy. Investment will increase in wide-ranging production activities, especially in agriculture, industry, forestry, livestock, mining, natural gas production, transport, business administration, retail & wholesale, and hotel and accommodation.
The Government strives to promote cooperation within the country and among the APEC economies through the BCG Economy model for tangible accomplishment. The Bio-Circular-Green Economy (BCG) Committee has been established, with the Prime Minister as chair, with the duty to set direction and identify strategies for the implementation of BCG and to ensure that the BCG model genuinely contributes to sustainable and inclusive economic growth.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/61842