รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM’s successful attendance at 31st APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting and related meetings


วันจันทร์ที่ 18 พฤศจิกายน 2567
18/11/2567
พิมพ์
PM’s successful attendance at 31st APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting and related meetings
PM’s successful attendance at 31st APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting and related meetings
Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed that prior to her return from the Republic of Peru at 1800hrs of November 16, 2024 (Peru local time), Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra disclosed the overview of her attendance at the 31st APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting and related meetings, held in Lima, Republic of Peru.
The Prime Minister commended Peru for its 3rd and successful hosting of the APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting under the theme: “Empower Inclusive Growth”, and, at the meeting, emphasized the importance in promoting innovation, digital, and sustainable growth, all of which are relevant with Thailand’s key policies. APEC economies share a common approach to sustainable development, whether it be the development of sustainable future, responses against natural disasters, and exchange of technologies, among others.
At the ABAC Dialogue with APEC Economic Leaders, the Prime Minister had a chance to meet with APEC business leaders from various areas, such as, energy, electric vehicles, and AI, many of whom are interested in investing in Thailand. Three global conglomerates, namely, TikTok, Microsoft, and Google, also expressed interest in increasing their investment in the country. She especially extended an invitation for them to invest in AI technology, semiconductor, and data center.
Investments in these areas would increase employments for the Thai people and drive forward economic growth. According to the Prime Minister, in order for the country’s GDP to grow further, national economy must be pushed forward and stimulated in all areas through implementation of various measures, e.g., the 10,000-baht cash handout scheme, promotion of soft powers, drawing of new investments, etc. Thailand has proclaimed at many meeting frameworks that the country strives to promote economic development, and become a true smart farming hub.
At her bilateral meeting with H.E. Mrs. Dina Ercilia Boluarte Zegarra, President of the Republic of Peru, the Prime Minister congratulated Peru for the success of its hosting of the 31st APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting, and affirmed Thailand’s readiness to finalize Thailand-Peru FTA negotiation. She expressed hope that Peru’s recent inauguration of Chancay Mega-port would significantly increase the opportunity of Thai agro products, and be a good opportunity to connect with Thailand’s Landbridge project in the future. The Thai Government also intends to forge cooperation with Peru in textile and fashion, utilizing Peruvian alpaca wool and Thai silk for the making of textile products. This will not only promote “soft power”, but also contribute to economic development of the two countries.
On her bilateral meeting with President Xi Jinping of People’s Republic of China, the Prime Minister discussed with him about the 50th anniversary of diplomatic relations next year, on occasion of which China would arrange the travel of the Buddha relics on December 4 to be temporarily enshrined in Thailand. Another couple of giant pandas will also be sent as animal ambassadors that link Thailand and China closer together.
Thailand is also eager to learn from China on poverty reduction and new technologies. The Prime Minister extended her invitation for Chinese investors to invest in Thailand. The Chinese President agreed to support Thailand’s proposal to become BRICS member, and to work together with the country in fighting against transnational crimes and online scams.
At the APEC CEOs-Leaders Dinner and the gala dinner held in honor of APEC economic leaders, the Prime Minister has made sure to boost confidence of the global community on Thailand’s potential and readiness to work together with other countries and to welcome new investments for the advancement of its economy and other APEC economies.
The Government Spokesperson added that the 31st APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting and related meetings, hosted by Peru, were successfully organized, with Peruvian culture and arts being subtly presented throughout the APEC Leaders' Week. The Prime Minister also received a lot of attentions from the global media as one of the only two female leaders at the 31st APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/90358