รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM chairs meeting to follow up on flood situation in Southern Thailand


วันพุธที่ 18 ธันวาคม 2567
18/12/2567
พิมพ์
​PM chairs meeting to follow up on flood situation in Southern Thailand
​PM chairs meeting to follow up on flood situation in Southern Thailand
December 17, 2024 at 1430hrs, at Nakhon Si Thammarat Provincial Hall, Mueang District, Nakhon Si Thammarat Province, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra chaired a meeting on flood situation, and ordered for an immediate relief to be provided to flood-affected victims in the Southern region (Nakhon Si Thammarat, Surat Thani, Chumphon, Phatthalung, and Narathiwat). Participating in the meeting were Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Anutin Charnvirakul, Permanent Secretary to Ministry of Interior Arsit Sampantharat, Director-General of the Department of Provincial Administration Chaiwat Junthiraphong, and Director-General of the Department of Public Works and Town & Country Planning Pongnara Yenying.
The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior reported that today's meeting was held under the Prime Minister’s order to follow up on the current flood situation, as the Southern part of the country is now hit with flash flood and landslide, and flood water must be immediately cleared so that the situation would return to normalcy. He expressed appreciation toward the Prime Minister for her full support to alleviate the plights of flood-affected victims, both in the Northern and the Southern Thailand, through approving emergency budget for flood relief and personally visiting affected areas to give moral support to both the victims and authorities. The Prime Minister has closely monitored the situation even during her recent official visit to Malaysia.
Deputy governor of Nakhon Si Thammarat reported on flood situation in the province, according to which the province’s 21 districts, 143 sub-districts, and 1,223 villages were flood-hit, including Khanom, Sichon, Noppitam, Thasala, Phipun, Phrom Khiri, Chawang, Mueang, Lansaka, Chang Klang, Phra Phrom, Pak Phanang, Nabon, Ron Phibun, Chaloem Phra Kiat, Thung Song, Chian Yai, Chulabhorn, Hua Sai, Bang Khan, and Cha-uat districts. Initially, 115,722 households have been affected, and 5 people (all males) died. The Disaster Prevention and Mitigation Regional Center Surat Thani (DPMRC11), in collaboration with the provincial disaster prevention and mitigation office, military, police, volunteers, civil society organizations, and related agencies, have surveyed the damages and provided initial assistance. Currently, 5 temporary shelters/evacuation areas have been set up with the capacities of 93 people in Phrom Khiri district; 120 people in Nopphitam district; 950 people in Mueang District (2 shelters); and 10 people at Ruam Jai Aun Ai Rak Shelter. Flood disaster areas that need emergency relief have been declared in 13 districts (Na Bon, Chian Yai, Thung Song, Mueang, Chulabhorn, Sichon, Cha-uat, Chaloem Phrakiat Phra Phrom, Ron Phibun, Phrom Khiri, Bang Khan, Phipun); 52 sub-districts; and 315 villages/communities. Highest rainfall during the past 24 hours was recorded in Mueang District at 294.0 mm. Currently, water level in Khlong Tha Dee has decreased.
The Prime Minister expressed her appreciation towards all concerned authorities for their effort in providing relief and alleviating people’s plights. Being aware that governors of the affected areas must stand by in their respective province to monitor flood and help out the local people, she has decided to travel and hold a meeting here in Nakhon Si Thammarat. The Government has closely monitored and followed up on flood situation in the South, both from direct reports and news images in the media. She commended all concerned authorities for their prompt actions in managing water situation and assisting flood-affected victims. According to the report from concerned authority, rainfall has started to decrease, and inundation should all be cleared by this Friday.
With regard to flood relief, the Government has placed great importance on helping and providing daily necessities, especially the four requisites, to flood-affected victims, as, after all, people’s lives and wellbeing are of top priority. Ministry of Interior has been authorized to deploy disaster prevention and mitigation including of providing supports to people in the affected area, according to the related law. Other concerned ministries have also mobilized all their forces, people, tools, and disaster response equipment in a bid to ensure that the situation returns to normalcy the soonest possible. The Prime Minister thanked all sectors, including provincial governors, military, police, civilians, volunteers, and local administrative offices, and offered her moral support. She is impressed with Thai people’s kindness and willingness to help those in need, which reflect unity of the Thai people.
The Prime Minister has ordered for the following actions to be immediately executed: 1. Utmost priority must be placed on people’s lives and wellbeing to ensure that they are provided with sufficient food and shelter, and that they will later be able to return to their residences and continue with their lives; 2. Public notifications must be clear and inclusive, especially in tourist areas; 3. Water and electricity must be immediately restored the soonest; and 4. Repair of damaged roads and routes must be accelerated. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior, as Disaster Prevention and Mitigation Commander, has taken the duty to liaise with all concerned sectors and local administrations should any problem arises, and update the Prime Minister of the situation.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/91513