รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Phuket requests for Govt’s support on provincial development in 6 aspects


วันจันทร์ที่ 13 มกราคม 2568
13/01/2568
พิมพ์
Phuket requests for Govt’s support on provincial development in 6 aspects
​PM wants Phuket to promote “premium tourism”
January 9, 2025, at 10.50 hrs, at Phuket International Airport’s meeting room, Phuket, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra chaired an integration meeting to discuss and tackle various issues of Phuket province. The meeting was attended by Minister of Tourism and Sports Sorawong Thienthong, Permanent Secretary to Ministry of Tourism and Sports Natthriya Thaweewong, Permanent Secretary to Ministry of Transport Chayatan Phromsorn, Permanent Secretary to Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment Chatuporn Buruspat, Governor of Phuket Sophon Suwannarat, and heads of Phuket’s local government agencies.
The Governor of Phuket reported that 92.9% of Phuket's revenue derives from tourism and service sectors. Tourism revenue in 2024 was worth more than 481,377 million Baht, an increase of 24% from 2023, ranking first in the Southern region. In 2024, the number of 12,898,898 tourists was recorded, an increase of 14.14% from 2023. There are direct flights from 21 countries, covering more than 53 cities. Currently, an average of over 2,572 flights per week or 368 flights per day are in operation. The province’s deep seaport accommodates large cruise ships, with an average of 2 inbound and outbound trips per week. There are also 5 marinas that accommodate world-class modern yachts, with an average of 13 inbound and outbound trips per week.
The Governor also proposed for the Government’s support over Phuket development plan in the following 6 aspects:
1. Traffic management:
(1) Four ongoing projects under the responsibility of Ministry of Transport: 1) Kathu - Patong Tunnel (Expressway Authority of Thailand); 2) Muang Mai - Koh Kaew - Kathu Expressway (Expressway Authority of Thailand); 3) Lane expansion on Highway 4027, Para - Muang Mai (Department of Highways); and 4) Construction of Muang Mai - Phuket Airport Elevated Road, (Department of Highways)
(2) Traffic management projects implemented by Phuket’s local authorities: 1) Construction of 6-kilometer road, route Phor Kor. 3030 - Bang Niao Dam Reservoir, on the land donated by 3 Phuket families (Ekwanich, Kulvanich, and Saksritawee); 2) Repair of 18 secondary roads by local administrative organizations; 3) Repair of secondary road, Wat Tha Ruea - Chengtalay (Highway 4025 - Phor Kor. 3030) in Si Sunthon subdistrict, Thalang district
(3) Installation of AI traffic light system implemented by Phuket Highways Office
(4) Development of light rail mass transit system
2. Water management:
1) Consumption water: Reservoir capacity must be efficiently managed to prevent future water shortage due to urban expansion and population growth in the province; 2) Wastewater: The province’s wastewater treatment capacity is currently 85,862 cubic meters per day, which is still low and does not cover the entire province. Phuket has collaborated with China Water Environment Group to study, survey and design 10 wastewater treatment plants, using local administrative organization’s budget for the implementation.
3. Waste management:
Phuket produces an average waste volume of 1,100 tons per day. The province’s second incinerator, with the capacity of 500 tons of waste per day, is now being constructed to accommodate city expansion. A new (second) waste management center, located at Bang Khanun Forest Park, Thalang District, will be constructed and operated by Phuket Provincial Administrative Organization
4. Disaster Management:
1) Flood disaster: Phuket requested for the allocation of the Department of Public Works and Town & Country Planning’s budget, at the amount of 263.6 million Baht, for the construction of flood-prevention levee at Khlong Tha Ruea - Koh Kaew and Khlong Na Luek in Si Sunthon subdistrict, Thalang district; 2) Landslides: Phuket requested for the Government’s support on prevention and solution to the province’s landslide risk areas, especially in Karon and Kamala. This is the responsibility of Phuket Provincial Public Works and Town & Country Planning Office and the Phuket Forestry Center
5. Tourist safety:
Phuket requested for the Government’s support to enhance tourist safety through the improvement of CCTV systems and training of volunteers
6. Healthcare:
Phuket requested for the budget allocation for the construction of Vajira Phuket Hospital’s Radiation Oncology Center for cancer patients in Phuket, Phang Nga and Krabi provinces

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/92278