รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM wants Phuket to promote “premium tourism”


วันจันทร์ที่ 13 มกราคม 2568
​PM wants Phuket to promote “premium tourism”
​PM wants Phuket to promote “premium tourism”
January 9, 2025, at 10.50 hrs, at Phuket International Airport’s meeting room, Phuket, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra chaired an integration meeting to discuss and tackle various issues of Phuket province. The meeting was attended by Minister of Tourism and Sports Sorawong Thienthong, Permanent Secretary to Ministry of Tourism and Sports Natthriya Thaweewong, Permanent Secretary to Ministry of Transport Chayatan Phromsorn, Permanent Secretary to Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment Chatuporn Buruspat, Governor of Phuket Sophon Suwannarat, and heads of Phuket’s local government agencies.
Following the report made by the Governor of Phuket, the Prime Minister expressed pleasure with an increase in the number of tourists which is almost on par with the pre-COVID period. Approximately 1/4 of the total number of tourists have visited Phuket. She suggested the province to focus on "premium tourism" to increase an average amount spent per trip per tourist, and mentioned the launch of “boat taxis” which will further accommodate both tourism and travel at Phuket’s various ports. The Government stands ready to provide support to the private sector on the initiative which may become a thriving business in Phuket.
On the request for support on the development of land infrastructure, the Prime Minister ordered that construction projects that have already been allocated with the budget should be rushed toward completion to accommodate people’s travel. Mass transit development and the implementation of EV buses are also important to link the airport with Phuket city.
Regarding soft power promotion, the Prime Minister emphasized the Government’s plan to promote organization of large-scale tourism festivals in Phuket. Suppressing influential people is also an important matter to prevent the public from feeling unsafe. On this, the Prime Minister instructed concerned authorities to strictly enforce the laws. She also wanted the province to enhance public awareness on waste recycling and value added.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/92282