รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on August 20, 2024.


วันจันทร์ที่ 26 สิงหาคม 2567
26/08/2567
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on August 20, 2024.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Action plan on solution to the spread of black chin tilapia fish (2024 – 2027)
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives:
1. Approved the Action plan on solution to the spread of black chin tilapia fish (2024 – 2027)
2. Approved for the Action plan on solution to the spread of black chin tilapia fish (2024 – 2027) to be a national agenda
3. Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives is exempted from conforming with the cabinet resolution on December 15, 2020, on “preparation for the level-3 action plan for …” in order to expedite proposing the matter to the cabinet
Gist
The Action plan on solution to the spread of black chin tilapia fish (2024 – 2027) will be implemented during July 2024 and September 2027 under the budget framework of 450 million Baht. The action plan comprises 7 measures (14 activities) as follows:
Measure 1: Control and eradication of black chin tilapia in all water sources where invasions are found.
Measure 2: Eradication of black chinned tilapia in natural water sources by continuously releasing predatory fish
Measure 3: Utilization of black chin tilapia removed from the ecosystem
Measure 4: Survey and monitoring of the spread of black chin tilapia population in buffer zone areas
Measure 5: Enhancing knowledge, awareness and participation in the eradication of black chinned tilapia
Measure 6: Development of research and innovation for solution of the spread of black chin tilapia
Measure 7: Ecological restoration
Title: Joint Statement for the 2nd Asia Zero Emission Community (AZEC) Ministerial Meeting
The cabinet approved the draft Joint Statement for the 2nd Asia Zero Emission Community (AZEC) Ministerial Meeting. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, nor the principle approved by the cabinet, Ministry of Energy may proceed and inform the cabinet later of the amendment. Minister of Energy or a representative is authorized to adopt the draft Joint Statement at the 2nd Asia Zero Emission Community (AZEC) Ministerial Meeting to be held on August 21, 2024, in Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia.
Gist
The Joint Statement for the 2nd Asia Zero Emission Community (AZEC) Ministerial Meeting is aimed for energy transition in Asia to achieve carbon neutrality and net zero greenhouse gas emissions while strengthening shared energy security. Scopes of cooperation include developing smart cities through knowledge sharing and policy dialogue, and establishing Asia Zero Emissions Center, among others.
Title: Request for approval of outcome documents of the 13th ASEAN Education Ministers Meeting
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Education:
1. Approved 4 outcome documents of the 13th ASEAN Education Ministers Meeting and related meetings as follows:
a. Buriram Joint Statement of the Thirteenth ASEAN Education Ministers Meeting
b. Joint Statement of the Seventh ASEAN Plus Three Education Ministers Meeting
c. Joint Statement of the Seventh East Asia Summit Education Ministers Meeting
d. Joint Declaration on the Common Space in Southeast Asian Higher Education
2. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, nor the principle approved by the cabinet, Ministry of Education may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
3. Minister of Education or a representative is authorized to endorse and adopt the 4 documents at the 13th ASEAN Education Ministers Meeting and related meetings to be held on August 25-26, 2024
4. Minister of Education or a representative is authorized to endorse and adopt the Joint Declaration on the Common Space in Southeast Asian Higher Education at the 53rd SEAMEO Council Conference (SEAMEC) to be held in 2025
5. Approved for Minister of Social Development and Human Security, as chair of ASEAN Socio-Cultural Community Council, or a representative to endorse and adopt the 4 documents at the 32nd ASEAN Socio-Cultural Community Council Meeting in September 2024.
6. Approved for the Prime Minister or a representative to endorse and adopt the 4 documents at the 44th ASEAN Summit to be held in October 2024
Title: Appointment of political official (Office of Prime Minister’s Secretary General)
The cabinet approved the proposal of Office of Prime Minister’s Secretary General to appoint Mr. Prommin Lertsuridej as Prime Minister’s Secretary General from August 20, 2024 onward.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/87453