รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on March 18, 2025


วันศุกร์ที่ 28 มีนาคม 2568
28/03/2568
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on March 18, 2025
The cabinet met on March 18, 2025
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for hot-rolled flat steel of general structure, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for hot-rolled flat steel of general structure, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for hot-rolled flat steel of general structure, B.E. …, prescribes revocation of Thai Industrial Standard for hot-rolled flat steel of general structure under TIS 1479 - 2558 and determines new Thai Industrial Standard for hot-rolled flat steel of general structure under TIS 1479 - 2566. This is to be in accordance with the referenced documents which have been revised and updated.
The draft Ministerial Regulation shall take effect 180 days after being announced in the Royal Gazette.
Title: Two draft Royal Decrees on land appropriation
The cabinet approved in principle two draft Royal Decrees on land appropriation, as proposed by Ministry of Transport, as follows:
1. Royal Decrees on land appropriation in Bangkok’s Bang Sue District (Bang Sue Subdistrict), Dusit District (Thanon Nakhon Chai Si, Wachiraphayaban, and Dusit Subdistricts), Phra Nakhon District (Wat Sam Phraya, Bang Khun Phrom, Ban Phan Thom, Chana Songkhram, Talat Yot, Bowon Niwet, Wang Burapha Phirom, and Samran Rat Subdistricts), Pom Prap Sattru Phai District (Wat Sommanas, and Ban Bat Subdistricts), Sampanthawong District (Sampantawong and Chakkrawat Subdistricts), Thon Buri District (Wat Kalaya, Hiran Ruchi, Bang Yi Ruea, Bukkhalo, Samre, and Dao Khanong Subdistricts), Khlong San District (Somdet Chao Phraya, Khlong San, Khlong Ton Sai Subdistricts), Chom Thong District (Bang Kho, Chom Thong, and Bang Mot Subdistricts), Rat Burana District (Bang Pakok and Rat Burana Subdistricts), and Thung Khru District (Bang Mot Subdistrict); and Samut Prakarn’s Phra Pradaeng District (Bang Phueng, Bang Khru Subdistricts), B.E. …
2. Draft Royal Decree on zoning of areas for mass transit operations in Bangkok’s Bang Sue District (Bang Sue Subdistrict), Dusit District (Thanon Nakhon Chai Si, Wachiraphayaban, and Dusit Subdistricts), Phra Nakhon District (Wat Sam Phraya, Bang Khun Phrom, Ban Phan Thom, Chana Songkhram, Talat Yot, Bowon Niwet, Wang Burapha Phirom, and Samran Rat Subdistricts), Pom Prap Sattru Phai District (Wat Sommanas, and Ban Bat Subdistricts), Sampanthawong District (Sampantawong and Chakkrawat Subdistricts), Thon Buri District (Wat Kalaya, Hiran Ruchi, Bang Yi Ruea, Bukkhalo, Samre, and Dao Khanong Subdistricts), Khlong San District (Somdet Chao Phraya, Khlong San, Khlong Ton Sai Subdistricts), Chom Thong District (Bang Kho, Chom Thong, and Bang Mot Subdistricts), Rat Burana District (Bang Pakok and Rat Burana Subdistricts), and Thung Khru District (Bang Mot Subdistrict); and Samut Prakarn’s Phra Pradaeng District (Bang Phueng, Bang Khru Subdistricts), B.E. …
Gist
The two draft Royal Decrees determine land areas to be expropriated for mass transit operation. Effective period of the two draft Royal Decree is 4 years. Land and property survey in the areas specified in the two draft Royal Decrees shall commence 180 days after the Royal Decrees being published in the Royal Gazette (August 8, 2024). This is for the construction of MRTA Purple Line (Tao Pun – Rat Burana) of which the blueprint has been revised to avoid a historic site, resulting in relocation of a construction spot, thereby requiring to appropriate additional area of land.
Title: Request for central fund for emergencies and contingency (FY2025) for student loan subsidy
The cabinet approved the central fund for emergencies and contingency (FY2025) at the amount of 2,838.6492 million Baht, as proposed by Ministry of Finance to subsidize student loans under the Student Loan Fund. The subsidy will cover tuition and living expenses for the first semester of the academic year 2025 (lending will begin in April 2025). The Student Loan Fund is also instructed to accelerate debt repayment in accordance with legal procedures in order for the organization to have sufficient operational budget for the the fiscal year 2025.
Title: Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in Technical Education, Vocational Education and Training between Thailand Trade and Economic Office (Taipei) and Taipei Economic and Cultural Office in Thailand
The cabinet approved the draft Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in Technical Education, Vocational Education and Training between Thailand Trade and Economic Office (Taipei) and Taipei Economic and Cultural Office in Thailand. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist, Ministry of Education may consult with Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ Department of Treaties and Legal Affairs before signing the MOU. Director-General of Thailand Trade and Economic Office (Taipei) is authorized as signatory of the MOU. This is as proposed by Ministry of Education.
Gist
Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in Technical Education, Vocational Education and Training between Thailand Trade and Economic Office (Taipei) and Taipei Economic and Cultural Office in Thailand is aimed at promoting cooperation in technical and vocational education between Thailand and Taiwan, i.e., exchange of teaching and learning experiences in the fields of electronic engineering, electric vehicles, aircraft maintenance, robotics, information technology, innovation, agriculture, food and nutrition, and tourism; Chinese teaching support in technical and vocational institutes in Thailand; and exchange of academic and administrative personnel, teachers and students, among others.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/94789