รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand to pay Official Visit to Lao PDR and attend 44th and 45th ASEAN Summits and Related Summits


วันศุกร์ที่ 4 ตุลาคม 2567
04/10/2567
พิมพ์
Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand to pay Official Visit to Lao PDR and attend 44th and 45th ASEAN Summits and Related Summits
Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand to pay Official Visit to Lao PDR and attend 44th and 45th ASEAN Summits and Related Summits
Prime Minister’s advisor Jirayu Houngsab disclosed that H.E. Ms. Paetongtarn Shinawatra, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand, will pay an Official Visit to the Lao People’s Democratic Republic (PDR) on 8 October 2024, and attend the 44th and 45th ASEAN Summits and Related Summits during 9-11 October 2024 in Vientiane at the invitation of H.E. the Prime Minister of the Lao PDR. This Official Visit to the Lao PDR marks the Thai Prime Minister’s first overseas Official Visit.
On 8 October 2024, the PM is scheduled to hold bilateral meetings with H.E. Mr. Sonexay Siphandone, Prime Minister of the Lao PDR, and H.E. Xaysomphone Phomvihane, President of the National Assembly of the Lao PDR. She will also pay a courtesy call on H.E. Mr. Thongloun Sisoulith, the President of the Lao PDR.  During these meetings, the Thai Prime Minister will discuss ways to enhance the Thailand – Lao PDR Strategic Partnership for Growth and Sustainable, with a particular focus on cooperation to address transboundary issues, including drug smuggling, online scams, human trafficking, transboundary haze, and water resources management in the Mekong River. She will also discuss cooperation on transportation connectivity and cross-border tourism to enhance the livelihoods of the peoples of both countries.
On 9-11 October 2024, Thai Prime Minister will attend the 44th and 45th ASEAN Summits and Related Summits, hosted by the Lao PDR under the theme “ASEAN: Enhancing Connectivity and Resilience”. As the first time participating in ASEAN Summit, Prime Minister’s advisor Jirayu Houngsab disclosed that during the Summits, the Thai Prime Minister will participate in both ASEAN Leaders’ meetings and meetings with ASEAN’s Dialogue Partners, namely China, Republic of Korea, Japan, Australia, India, the U.S., and Canada, as well as the United Nations. The Leaders will discuss key strategic issues such as ASEAN Community-building, cooperation between ASEAN and external partners, as well as regional and international issues.
Additionally, H.E. the Thai Prime Minister is also scheduled to take part in ASEAN Leaders’ Interfaces with the ASEAN Inter-Parliamentary Assembly, ASEAN Business Advisory Council, and ASEAN Youth, and the 2nd Asia Zero Emission Community Leaders’ Meeting. Bilateral meetings with several other Leaders have also been scheduled.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/88772