รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​The cabinet met on October 8, 2024.


วันจันทร์ที่ 21 ตุลาคม 2567
21/10/2567
พิมพ์
​The cabinet met on October 8, 2024.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Extension of period for drafting of subordinate legislations to be enacted under Cosmetics Act (No.2), B.E. 2565 (2022)
The cabinet approved the extension of period for drafting of subordinate legislations to be enacted under Cosmetics Act (No.2), B.E. 2565 (2022) for another year from October 12, 2024 onward. This is as proposed by Ministry of Public Health.
Gist
Ministry of Public Health reported that there are 3 subordinate legislations, to be enacted under Cosmetics Act (No.2), B.E. 2565 (2022), that fit under Section 22 (2) of the Act on Legislative Drafting and Evaluation of Law, B.E. 2562 (2019), and cannot be enacted before October 12, 2024. Therefore, it is deemed necessary for the Ministry to request for approval of the cabinet on the extension of period for drafting of the 3 subordinate legislations for another year from October 12, 2024 onward.
The 3 subordinate legislations are:
1) Draft Ministry of Public Health Announcement on Maximum Listing Rates to be Collected from Experts, Expert Organizations, Government Agencies, or Private Organizations Both Domestic and Foreign, Who Perform Academic Document Assessment, Analysis, Inspection of Establishments, or Cosmetic Inspections, B.E. ....
2) Draft Ministry of Public Health Announcement on maximum fee rate to be collected from applicants in cosmetic review process B.E. ....
3) Draft Ministry of Public Health Announcement on criteria, methods and conditions for receiving money, paying money and keeping money collected in accordance with the cosmetic review process B.E. …
Title: Request for extension of implementation of 2 large-scale irrigation projects
The cabinet approved extension of implementation of 2 large-scale irrigation projects under the already-approved budget framework, as proposed by Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives.
Gist
The two projects are:
Flood alleviation project in Chaiyaphum’s Muang district (1st Phase): extension requested from 6 years (FY2019-2024) to 9 years (FY2019-2027) with the approved budget framework of 3.44 billion Baht
Lam Saphung Reservoir project under the royal initiative (Chaiyaphum province) with the approved budget framework of 3.1 billion Baht from 6 years (FY2019-2024) to 8 years (FY2019-2026)
Implementation of the 2 projects must be extended due to the shortage of supplies and equipment during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Title: ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on Science, Technology and Innovation (AMMSTI) Statement on Artificial Intelligence (AI)
The cabinet approved the draft ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on Science, Technology and Innovation (AMMSTI) Statement on Artificial Intelligence (AI). Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Higher Education, Sciences, Research and Innovation may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. This is as proposed by Ministry of Higher Education, Sciences, Research and Innovation.
Gist
The draft ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on Science, Technology and Innovation (AMMSTI) Statement on Artificial Intelligence (AI) is aimed to demonstrate ASEAN awareness of AI potential in driving and developing technology and innovation, and for ASEAN member states to be prepared in responding to related challenges.
Title: Request for Thailand’s accession to Protocol of 1988 relating to the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1974 and to Protocol of 1988 relating to the International Convention on Load Lines, 1966
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Transport:
Approved Thailand’s accession to Protocol of 1988 relating to the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1974 and to Protocol of 1988 relating to the International Convention on Load Lines, 1966
Ministry of Foreign Affairs is to issue the Instrument of Accession to be submitted to Secretary General of International Maritime Organization (IMO)
Title: Request for approval of ASEAN Leaders’ Declaration on Promoting Sustainable Agriculture
The cabinet approved the draft ASEAN Leaders’ Declaration on Promoting Sustainable Agriculture. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, concerned agency may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. The Pime Minister or a representative is authorized to adopt the draft Declaration together with other ASEAN leaders. This is as proposed by Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives.
Gist
The ASEAN Leaders’ Declaration on Promoting Sustainable Agriculture will be adopted during the 44th ASEAN Summit to be held during October 6-11, 2024 in Vientiane, Lao PDR. The draft Declaration prescribes cooperation guidelines among ASEAN Member States on sustainable agriculture; and encourages Dialogue Partners, international organizations, relevant private sectors and other relevant stakeholders to collaborate with ASEAN Member States in developing and implementing projects and programmes that support sustainable agriculture in the region.
Title: Draft Statement for The 2nd Asia Zero Emission Community (AZEC) Leaders Meeting
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Energy:
Approved the draft Statement for The 2nd Asia Zero Emission Community (AZEC) Leaders Meeting
Approved for the Prime Minister or a representative to adopt the draft Statement during the 2nd Asia Zero Emission Community (AZEC) Leaders Meeting. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Energy may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
The draft Statement for The 2nd Asia Zero Emission Community (AZEC) Leaders Meeting prescribes joint commitment of AZEC leaders in accelerating the implementation of international agreement frameworks on climate change and activities under the AZEC Initiative to achieve shared energy transition and carbon neutrality goals.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/89329