รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Tourists invited to join in celebrating the Pride Month with 2 final events in Bangkok and Koh Samui


วันจันทร์ที่ 1 กรกฎาคม 2567
01/07/2567
พิมพ์
Tourists invited to join in celebrating the Pride Month with 2 final events in Bangkok and Koh Samui
Tourists invited to join in celebrating the Pride Month with 2 final events in Bangkok and Koh Samui
June 28, 2024, Deputy Government Spokesperson Radklao Inthawong Suwankiri extended the Government’s invitation for both Thai and foreign tourists to bid farewell to the Pride Month through the two events held in Koh Samui and Bangkok later in the week.
The first event is “Pride Nation Samui International Pride Festival” which is held during June 24-29, 2024 in Koh Samui, Surat Thani province. Koh Samui is a popular tourist destination among the foreigners. The event is held with the concept of “Let’s Join PRIDEradise” in unity to transform Koh Samui into the PRIDEradise island. It features a Pride Parade, and a Music Festival. The Thai Government expects this event to be attended by tourists from around the world to marvel the beauty of Koh Samui, and enjoy the opportunity to meet new friends and experience cultural diversity.
The other event is “LOVE PRIDE ♡ PARADE 2024” to be held on June 30, 2024 at 16:00 – 18:30, as the grand finale of the PRIDE festival. The event is organized through the collaboration of over 100 public agencies and private organizations in a bid to push Thailand to become a Pride Festival Destination. It features Asia’s longest “LOVE PRIDE PARADE”, a distance of 6 kilometers, stretching from Rama I Road, passing through the Pathumwan area, Siam area, Ratchaprasong area, Ploenchit area, Asoke area, Sukhumvit area, ending at Benjasiri Park, Sukhumvit Road. This will be the grand finale to the Pride Month, and will enhance Thailand’s bid to host the Bangkok World Pride 2030. The Prime Minister will also join the crowd at the “LOVE PRIDE ♡ PARADE 2024”.
According to the Deputy Government Spokesperson, Pride Month activities are expected to generate no less than 10 billion Baht in revenue, and over 1 million spectators is estimated for the upcoming Love Pride parade.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/85196