รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM debriefs on his field visit to Northeast


วันจันทร์ที่ 1 กรกฎาคม 2567
01/07/2567
พิมพ์
PM debriefs on his field visit to Northeast
PM debriefs on his field visit to Northeast
June 30, 2024, at 1110hrs, at Rattanaburi School, Rattanburi districts, Surin province, Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin disclosed about his field visits to Nan, Roi Et, Ubon Ratchathani, Sisaket, and Surin provinces, during which he directly heard from the local people on their plights and problems, especially the problems of flood and drought, agro product prices, illicit drug problem, road and airport development. He added that the Government took these problems seriously, and concerned agencies have already been instructed to work in an integrated manner to address all the above problems.
The Prime Minister also observed the making of Buddhis Lent candles, and marveled Ubon Ratchathani Candle Festival which is visited by a large number of tourists each year. This event should be further promoted as the province’s main annual event or festival. This year Ubon Ratchathani Candle Festival will be held during July 20-21, and the Prime Minister would like to attend if time permits. He also ordered the Royal Irrigation Department (RID) to expedite its water resource management plans in all aspects to prevent flood and drought. In 2023, there was very few flood disasters thanks to the integrated effort of RID and local MPs in efficiently storing water in various water sources.
During his field visit to Sisaket province, the Prime Minister ordered relevant agencies, i.e., Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Public Health, police, and the military, to integrate their anti-drug operation and urgently establish treatment facilities, as the province has the second-highest number of arrests in relations to illicit drugs, but the lower Isan region still lacks adequate treatment facilities. He added that by the end of the 3rd quarter of 2024 (September), the Government will make Roi Et a drug-free “White Province”. If this effort is a success, the “Roi Et White Province” model will be applied to other nearby provinces in the Northeast since these Isan provinces have seriously been affected by the widespread of narcotics, allegedly imported from the neighboring countries. The Prime Minister was also confident that flood and drought would not be an issue this year with RID’s continued water resource management operation in the Northeast. On agro product prices, Ministry of Commerce is assigned to tackle the problem. The Government commits to make the situation better by seeking new overseas markets.
Surin is one of the leading rice producers of the country. Rice produced in the province, whether it be Hom Mali rice or organic rice, can be sold at high prices per kg. Nevertheless, the Government will find a way to upgrade Surin rice in order for local farmers to generate more income and have better livelihood. The Prime Minister will also push ahead promotion of Surin wagyu beef, and the development of Chong Jom customs checkpoint. which is adjacent to Cambodia’s border, in a bid to stimulate border trade. Ministry of Transport is also instructed to conduct a feasibility on the construction of Surin Airport.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/85219