รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM chairs 1/2024 meeting of Digital Wallet Policy Committee


วันศุกร์ที่ 16 กุมภาพันธ์ 2567
16/02/2567
พิมพ์
PM chairs 1/2024 meeting of Digital Wallet Policy Committee
PM chairs 1/2024 meeting of Digital Wallet Policy Committee
February 15, 2024, at 1600hrs, at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House, Prime Minister
and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin presided over the 1/2024 meeting of Digital Wallet
Policy Committee. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of the meeting as
follows:
The Prime Minister emphasized that the Digital Wallet scheme is the Government policy that is
aimed to revitalize the economy and lay foundation for the country’s digital economy. The
budget for the scheme is estimated at approx. 500 billion Baht. He also affirmed that the
scheme would be implemented according to provisions prescribed in the Constitution and
related laws. The Government would perform its duty, in relation to the scheme
implementation, with honesty, transparency, and accountability, and would exercise prudence
in undertaking related activities, as well as to maintain strict financial discipline, for the best
interest of the country and people.
In order to ensure transparency of the scheme, the Digital Wallet Policy Committee assigned
the Committee’s secretariat (Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Commerce) to act as a sub-
committee to liaise and discuss with various concerned parties in conforming to suggestions and
recommendations of the Council of State. Ministry of Digital Economy and Society and the
Digital Government Development Agency (Public Organization) were also instructed to expand
the scope of supporting system development to ensure transparency and accountability, and to
prevent corruption and fraud. A subcommittee was also established to investigate fraudulent
actions against the Digital Wallet scheme’s rules and conditions.
At the meeting, all concerned agencies have broadly exchanged views and opinions on people’s
economic situation and problem, and other related issues. These opinions will be compiled and
brought for discussion at the next meeting.
Toward the end of the meeting, the Prime Minister affirmed his commitment to prevent
corruption and fraudulence in the implementation of the Digital Wallet scheme for the best
interest of the nation and people.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/78996