รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​The cabinet met on May 7, 2024.


วันพุธที่ 15 พฤษภาคม 2567
​The cabinet met on May 7, 2024.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Decommission of Oil Facilities in Thailand-Malaysia Joint Development Area, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Decommission of Oil Facilities in Thailand-Malaysia Joint Development Area, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Energy. Ministry of Energy is to take comments of Ministry of Industry into consideration in order to proceed with the matter.
Gist
Malaysia-Thailand Joint Authority (MTJA) was established as a juristic entity to assume the rights and responsibilities of both countries in exploration and exploitation of non-living natural resources, particularly petroleum, in the Joint Development Area (JDA). Production Sharing Contracts (PSC) was signed to explore and exploit petroleum in the JDA, under which contractors are responsible for the decommissioning process. Technical details regarding decommissioning of facilities are stipulated in the draft Malaysia-Thailand Joint Authority Decommissioning Processes Procedures and Guidelines.
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Decommission of Oil Facilities in Thailand-Malaysia Joint Development Area, B.E. …, will take effect on May 2, 2024 onward. It prescribes definitions of related terms, responsibilities of contractors, Decommissioning Fund, decommissioning details and procedures.
Title: Four Draft Acts Concerning Establishment of Higher Education Development Fund
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation:
Approved 4 draft Acts Concerning Establishment of Higher Education Development Fund:
Draft Higher Education Act (No. …) B.E. ....
Draft Science, Research and Innovation Promotion Act (No. ...) B.E. ....
Draft Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation Administration Act (No. …) B.E. ....
Draft National Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation Policy Council Act (No. …) B.E. ....
Acknowledged the plan for drafting of secondary laws, timeframe, and gist of the secondary laws issued under the draft Higher Education Act (No. …) B.E. ....
Gist
The draft Higher Education Act (No. …) B.E. .... prescirbes establishment of Higher Education Development Fund to promote educational excellence of Thai higher education institutions, and develop curriculum, R&D and innovation.
The Draft Science, Research and Innovation Promotion Act (No. ...) B.E. ....; Draft Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation Administration Act (No. …) B.E. ....; and Draft National Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation Policy Council Act (No. …) B.E. .... prescribe revisions of certain sections of the laws to be in line with the establishment of Higher Education Development Fund.
Title: Assignment to Deputy Prime Minister or Minister Attached to Prime Minister’s Office in screen bills and law-related cases before forwarding to Prime Minister
The cabinet approved the following proposals of the Cabinet Secretariat:
1) Assigned Deputy Prime Minister or Minister Attached to Prime Minister’s Office to review draft cabinet resolutions compiled by the Cabinet Secretariat
2) Assigned Deputy Prime Minister or Minister Attached to Prime Minister’s Office to scrutinize laws, bills, and legal-related agendas before proposing to the Prime Minister.
Title: Request for Extension of Two Reservoir Construction Projects
The cabinet approved extention of two large-scale reservoir construction projects as proposed by Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives:
Project
Original Plan
Revised Plan
Khlong Luang Reservoir
Chonburi Province
14 Years (FY 2010 – 2023)
17 Years (FY 2010 – 2026)
Under approved budget framework of 9,341.36 million Baht
Kiew Kho Ma Reservoir
Lampang Province
19 Years (FY 2005 – 2023)
22 Years (FY 2005 - 2026)
Under approved budget framework of 3,670.05 million Baht
Title: Overview of Economic and Trade Indices for March 2024
The cabinet acknowledged the Overview of Economic and Trade Indices for March 2024, as proposed by Ministry of Commerce.
Gist
According to the report,
Consumer Price Index (CPI) in March 2024: 107.25 (+0.03 MoM)
Headline inflation rate: -0.47 (YoY)
Core inflation rate: +0.37 (YoY)
Average CPI in the 1st quarter of 2024: -0.79 (YoY) and -0.21 (QoQ)
Consumer Confidence Index (CCI): 54.1
Headline inflation rate for 2024 is estimated at 0.0-1.0% (Median 0.5)
Title: Report on the Industrial Economics Status for February 2024
The cabinet acknowledged Industrial Economic Report for February 2024, as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
Based on the report, manufacturing production index (MPI) for February 2024 contracted by 2.8% YoY, mainly due to high household debts and loan interests, resulting in the decrease of domestic consumption. Key industries that caused the contraction were automobiles (-16.83%), electronics parts and circuit (-18.66%), and palm oil (-27.23%), whereas key industries that expanded well in February 2024 (YoY) were petroleum refinery products (+7.59%), chemical fertilizers and nitrogen compounds (+39.82%), and genuine gemstone jewelries (+24.56%).
Title: Draft Joint Statement of The Thirteenth ASEAN Ministers Meeting on Rural Development and Poverty Eradication
The cabinet approved adoption of the draft Joint Statement of The Thirteenth ASEAN Ministers Meeting on Rural Development and Poverty Eradication. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Interior may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Interior, as ASEAN Minister of Rural Development and Poverty Eradication from Thailand, is authorized to to notify the ASEAN Secretariat on the approved adoption. This is as proposed by Ministry of Interior.
Gist
The Thirteenth ASEAN Ministers Meeting on Rural Development and Poverty Eradication (The 13th  AMRDPE) and related meetings have been held in the Republic of Singapore on November 20-22, 2023 under the theme: “Strengthening Community-based Approaches and Social Protection for Poverty Alleviation”. It was attended by Minister of Interior Anutin Charnvirakul, as ASEAN Minister of Rural Development and Poverty Eradication from Thailand.
The draft Joint Statement of The Thirteenth ASEAN Ministers Meeting on Rural Development and Poverty Eradication reflects the commitment of ASEAN member states in promoting regional cooperation and addressing the challenges faced by rural communities in the region. The outcomes of the meeting will contribute to the region’s effort to achieve the ASEAN Community Vision 2025 and build a more resilient and sustainable future for all.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/83061