รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM to visit France, pay official visit to Italy, and attend 29th Nikkei Forum Future of Asia in Japan


วันพุธที่ 15 พฤษภาคม 2567
15/05/2567
พิมพ์
PM to visit France, pay official visit to Italy, and attend 29th Nikkei Forum Future of Asia in Japan
PM to visit France, pay official visit to Italy, and attend 29th Nikkei Forum Future of Asia in Japan
May 15, 2024, Deputy Government Spokesperson Rudklao Intawong Suwankiri disclosed that Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin will leave from Suvarnabhumi Airport, Samut Prakan province in the night (23.30 Hrs) of May 15 to arrive in Paris, France in the morning of May 16, 2024. He is scheduled to visit the Republic of France during May 15 - 16, 2024, pay an official visit to the Republic of Italy and attend parallel activities on May 17 - 21, 2024, and attend the 29th Nikkei Forum Future of Asia on May 22 - 24, 2024 in Tokyo, Japan.
According to the Deputy Government Spokesperson, the Prime Minister will lead a group of Thai business executives to attend the Thailand - France Business Forum in France. The event is organized following the Prime Minister’s official visit to France in March. It is aimed to promote mutual trade, and attract more investment from the French private sector. The Prime Minister is also scheduled to have a bilateral meeting with President Emmanuel Macron to follow up on outcomes of their previous meeting, particularly on trade and investment, defense industry, and soft power, and to push forward elevation of Thailand – France to strategic partnership according to the Roadmap for Thai – French Relations (2022 – 2024).
The Prime Minister will later pay an official visit to the Republic of Italy, and have a bilateral discussion with H.E. Mrs. Giorgia Meloni, President of the Council of Ministers of the Italian Republic to promote relations between Thailand and Italy, which the year 2024 marks the 156th Anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations. And strengthen cooperation in the areas of mutual interest, e.g., renewable energy; sports tourism; medical science and pharmaceuticals; and defense cooperation. The Prime Minister will also push forward such important issues as Schengen visa waiver for Thai ordinary passport holders, finalization of Thailand – EU FTA negotiation by 2025, and Italy’s future acceptance of Thai workers who have returned from Israel. The Prime Minister is also due to meet with Mr. Attilio Fontana, the President of Lombardy Region, which is the most important region of Italy's economy.
The Prime Minister will also meet with Italy’s global corporations, including president of the National Chamber of Italian Fashion (Mr. Carlo Capasa), and will invite them to consider investment in Thailand, especially in the fields of fashion and soft power, agriculture and food, automobiles, energy, finance and Sustainability Linked Bonds, and the Landbridge project.
The Prime Minister will later fly to Japan to attend and deliver a keynote address at the 29th Nikkei Forum Future of Asia, of which the theme is “Asian Leadership in an Uncertain World”. He will propose Asian cooperation in the following areas: 1) trade and investment connectivity to open up business opportunities; 2) sustainability promotion through green economy and energy; 3) cooperation on digital transition; and 4) multilateral system paradigm shift to support the Asian economy and overcome volatile and challenging world situation.
Outcome of the Prime Minister’s overseas mission will later be disclosed via all channels.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/83055