รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM meets with Japanese Ambassador to Thailand


วันพุธที่ 15 พฤษภาคม 2567
15/05/2567
พิมพ์
​PM meets with Japanese Ambassador to Thailand
​PM meets with Japanese Ambassador to Thailand
May 9, 2024, at 1345hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Otaka Masato, Ambassador of Japan to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin on occasion of his assumption of position. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister congratulated the Japanese Ambassador for his tenure in Thailand, and commended Japan for its success in hosting the Commemorative Summit for the 50th Year of ASEAN-Japan Friendship and Cooperation in Tokyo late last year. During his attendance at the Summit, the Prime Minister had chances to meet with Japanese private sector, especially those in automobile business. Thailand and Japan have long forged close cooperation in this area, and the Thai Government commits to further strengthen investment cooperation with the Japan business sector. The Prime Minister’s attendance and delivery of keynote address at the 29th Nikkei Forum of Asia will be another good opportunity to promote investment cooperation in other key industries and build upon the momentum of his visit to Tokyo last year.
The Japanese Ambassador expressed pleasure and thanked the Prime Minister for the courtesy call, and affirmed that the Japanese private sector continues to place importance on investing in Thailand. They are working toward strengthening cooperation amidst the ongoing transformation of the automotive industry.
Both parties also discussed matters of mutual interest:
The Prime Minister affirmed the Government’s commitment to support and work together with the Japanese private sector in expanding business opportunity. Both parties were also pleased with the new bilateral mechanism between Thailand and Japan, the “Energy and Industrial Dialogue”, on which Prime Ministers of the two countries approved in principle. Thailand stands ready to work closely together with Japan toward official announcement on the cooperation during the next high-level visit between the two countries. The Prime Minister and Japanese Ambassador also discussed human resource development cooperation to upskill personnel and workers in various areas for mutual interest.
On the Myanmar situation, the Japanese Ambassador commended Thailand for the humanitarian assistance. Both parties hoped that the situation be resolved through peaceful dialogue.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/83057