รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM pleased with industrial cooperation between Thai Ministry of Industry and Japanese prefectural governments


วันพุธที่ 1 กุมภาพันธ์ 2566
​PM pleased with industrial cooperation between Thai Ministry of Industry and Japanese prefectural governments
​PM pleased with industrial cooperation between Thai Ministry of Industry and Japanese prefectural governments
February 1, 2023, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha was pleased with the signing of MOUs between Ministry of Industry and several Japanese prefectural governments to promote industrial and technology cooperation.  The Ministry’s 23rd and latest collaboration is with Ishikawa prefecture, which is renowned for its machinery industry, fabric and textile industry, food production, and agro industry.
Department of Industrial Promotion (DIPROM) is Thailand’s focal point to promote area-based cooperation in line with the needs of both sides. The Department also acts as a liaison for cluster industry cooperation under the concept of “OTAGAI” which means “helping each other”. The 22nd OTAGAI Forum, a meeting of industrial development cooperation networks, will take place in Ishikawa’s Nanao city this month to promote cooperation in carbon-fiber-reinforced polymers from hemp fiber modification, BCG industry, and food processing industry. At the event, Ministry of Industry also plans to attract Japanese businessmen to consider investment in other areas. According to the Government Spokesperson, over 6,000 Japanese businesses currently operate in the country.
The Prime Minister has always emphasized the importance to integrate operation of all concerned sectors to promote cooperation and networking in diversified industries and businesses, especially at the local level. Such industrial cooperation would enable cooperation expansion in other dimensions, and contribute to the growth of Thailand’s industrial estates.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/64445