รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with Prince Mahidol Award 2024 laureates


วันจันทร์ที่ 3 กุมภาพันธ์ 2568
03/02/2568
พิมพ์
PM meets with Prince Mahidol Award 2024 laureates
PM meets with Prince Mahidol Award 2024 laureates
January 31, 2025, at 1400hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Prof. Dr. Apichat Asavamongkolkul, Dean of Faculty of Medicine, Siriraj Hospital, Mahidol University, in his capacity as Vice President of the Prince Mahidol Award Foundation under the Royal Patronage, led 2 Prince Mahidol Award 2024 laureates to pay a courtesy call on Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra. Participating in the meeting were H.E. Mr. Robert F. Godec, Ambassador of the United States to Thailand, and H.E. Mr. Mark Gooding, Ambassador of the United Kingdom to Thailand.
The 2 Prince Mahidol Awards Laureates for 2024 are Professor Dr. Tony Hunter (United Kingdom / the United States of America), the PMA Laureate in the Field of Medicine; and Professor Dr. Jonathan P. Shepherd (United Kingdom), the PMA Laureate in the Field of Public Health.
Professor Dr. Tony Hunter’s significant research achievement was the first discovery of tyrosine kinase enzymes and the phosphorylation process which led to the development of targeted cancer therapies by inhibiting the activity of tyrosine kinase enzymes, greatly contributing to the advancement of cancer treatment and research worldwide.
Professor Dr. Shepherd’s significant achievement was development and implementation of the “Cardiff Model for Violence Prevention” which is recognized as a vital public health tool and innovation for reducing community violence. It has significantly helped decrease loss of life and property, enhanced the quality of life in various communities, and gained acceptance across continents, benefiting the health of hundreds of millions worldwide.
The Prime Minister praised the Prince Mahidol Award 2024 laureates for their dedication and commitment which have successfully led to major contributions to the world of medical sciences and public health. Their achievements have brought about effectiveness of disease treatments and people’s better well-being, which is in line with the Thai government’s aspirations. They have also inspired Thai medical and public health personnel and youths.
The two PMA Laureates expressed their appreciation toward the Prime Minister and Thailand for the warm welcome, and expressed belief that their works are applicable to Thailand, both in terms of medicinal development and data linkage for violence trend analysis to come up with preventive measures.
The Prime Minister also discussed with the two ambassadors on medical and public health cooperation. Thailand has had long-standing relations with both the United States and the United Kingdom, and with the Thai government’s priority on improving the quality of life of Thai people, it is ready to tighten R&D cooperation in medicine and public health with both countries.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/92983