รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM presided over the virtual signing ceremony of an MOU between PTT Public Company Limited and Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd. (Foxconn Technology Group)


วันอังคารที่ 1 มิถุนายน 2564
พิมพ์
PM presided over the virtual signing ceremony of an MOU between PTT Public Company Limited and Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd. (Foxconn Technology Group)
PM presided over the virtual signing ceremony of an MOU between PTT Public Company Limited and Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd. (Foxconn Technology Group) on EV Development and Manufacturing project in Thailand.
May 31, 2021, at 1530hrs, Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha presided over the virtual signing ceremony of an MOU between PTT Public Company Limited and Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd. (Foxconn Technology Group) on EV Development and Manufacturing project in Thailand. The partnership aims to set up an end-to-end production platform that provides instant scale to the local EV industry in Thailand, leading the country into a new era of innovative, competitive, and fast-paced growth in electric car manufacturing. Witnessing the signing were the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Energy Supattanapong Punmeechaow, Secretary-General to the Prime Minister Distat Hotrakitya, Secretary General of the National Economic and Social Development Council Danucha Pichayanan, Secretary General of the Thailand Board of Investment Duangjai Asawachintachit and PTT’s Chairman Thosaporn Sirisumphand, as well as executives of concerned public and private agencies.
The Prime Minister took the opportunity to congratulate signing of the MOU. The Thai Government has placed importance on enhancing EV industry to continue the growth, and has set the industry as one of the S-Curve industries. The aim is to promote Thailand as regional leader and hub in EV manufacturing and export, and to achieve the country’s target for GHG reduction. A National Electric Vehicle Policy Committee has been established, and the target is also set to increase domestic EV production to 30% of the total automotive production by the year 2030, or 700,000 units per year.
According to the Prime Minister, the Government commits to create an ecosystem conducive to electric vehicle usage through the collaboration between public and private sectors. He also wished for the success of this partnership between PTT Public Company Limited and Foxconn Technology Group, and expressed confidence that this partnership not only benefits the two organizations, but Thailand as a whole, as it would drive the country into the better future, both in economic, innovative, and environmental aspects.
PTT’s Chairman Thosaporn Sirisumphand stated that the collaboration between PTT Public Company Limited and Foxconn Technology Group is aimed to set up an open platform for producing electric vehicles (EV) and key components to serve the EV sector in Thailand. The initial investment is set as US$1 billion, with the prospect of an investment expansion to US$2 billion in the future. The expansion of EV production will provide the company with an opportunity for business development, and will enhance Thai people’s access to domestically-produced EVs with lower cost and more sustainability.
According to Mr. Young Liu, Chairman and CEO of Foxconn, with PTT’s development in EV and battery charging infrastructure, Foxconn can contribute its expertise and technology to gradually build a complete and vertically integrated EV industry in Thailand. He expressed belief that through this partnership Thailand will become a leader in the global EV evolution.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/42284