รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on January 16, 2023


วันอังคารที่ 23 มกราคม 2567
23/01/2567
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on January 16, 2023
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on Revocation of Public Land in Phlu Ta Luang subdistrict, Sattahip district, Chonburi province, B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on Revocation of Public Land in Phlu Ta Luang subdistrict, Sattahip district, Chonburi province, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Interior. The draft Royal Decree was reviewed by Office of Council of State.
Gist
The draft Royal Decree on Revocation of Public Land in Phlu Ta Luang subdistrict, Sattahip district, Chonburi province, B.E. … prescribed revocation of a plot of public land in Phlu Ta Luang subdistrict, Sattahip district, Chonburi province (approx. area of 95 rai 30 square wah), which is now left unused by the public since 1987. The land will be transferred to Office of the Auditor General of Thailand to be used for the construction of National Audit Professional Development Center.
Title: Contract for Post-Certification Activities of Radionuclide Monitoring Station (RN65)
The cabinet approved the following proposal made by Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation:
Approved for the Ministry, through Office of Atoms for Peace, as Station Operator, to enter into a contract with Preparatory Commission for the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization (CTBTO PrepCom) for the Contract for Post-Certification Activities (PCA Contract) of Radionuclide Monitoring Station (RN65), which covers only THP65. Secretary-General of the Office of Atoms for Peace or a representative is authorized as signatory of the PCA Contract.
Approved the PCA Contract and the use of arbitration in resolving disputes. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not essences, or a revision in the Annexes on “Radionuclide Noble Gas System (THX65)” and “Primary Seismic Monitoring Station (PS41)”, Office of Atoms for Peace may seek suggestion from Office of Council of State and proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
Title: Recognition of Catholic churches according to Regulation of Prime Minister’s Office on Establishment of Catholic churches, B.E. 2564
The cabinet approved recognition of 41 Catholic churches according to the Regulation of Prime Minister’s Office on Establishment of Catholic churches, B.E. 2564, as proposed by Ministry of Culture.
Gist
List of the 41 recognized Catholic churches by provinces are as follows:
Provinces
No. of churches
Nakhon Ratchasima
13
Chaiyaphum
7
Burirum
5
Si Saket
3
Maha Sarakham
3
Roi Et
2
Yasothorn
4
Ubon Ratchathani
3
Mukdaharn
1
Total
41
Recognition of Catholic churches will entitle these churches to the Government’s subsidy for religious projects and activities, and certain tax privileges.
Title: Request for the area of Pattani’s Panare district and Yala’s Raman district to be areas with issues that impact internal security
The cabinet announced for the area of Pattani’s Panare district and Yala’s Raman district to be areas with issues that impact national security. As a result, the Internal Security Act, B.E. 2551 will be enforced in these areas. The approval will take effect during January 20 and September 30, 2024. This is as proposed by the Internal Security Operations Command.
Title: Controlled goods Under the Act on Prices of Goods and Services B.E. 2542 (1999)
The cabinet approved 5 controlled goods for the year 2024 under the Act on Prices of Goods and Services B.E. 2542 (1999). The 5 controlled goods are: 1) hygienic mask; 2) Polypropylene (Spunbond) for hygienic mask manufacturing; 3) alcohol-based products for hand hygiene; 4) scrap paper/recycled paper; and 5) chicken and chicken meat.
This is in accordance with the resolution of the Central Committee on the Price of Goods and Services, dated January 10, 2024. The approval of the 5 controlled goods will take effect until June 27, 2024. This is as proposed by Ministry of Commerce to ensure product sufficiency at appropriate and fair prices for consumers.
Title: Draft Outcome Document for 3rd South Summit
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Foreign Affairs:
Approved the draft Outcome Document for 3rd South Summit. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet
Assigned the Thai representative at the 3rd South Summit to adopt the outcome document on January 22, 2024.
Gist
With the theme “Leaving No One Behind” the Third South Summit (G77 plus China) looks to bring a new dynamic to the cooperation among its 134 Member States of the Group of 77 in a more competitive world. The Summit aims at boosting South-South cooperation including in the areas of trade, investment, sustainable development, climate change, poverty eradication, and digital economy. The outcome document of the Third South Summit will reflect the purposes.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/77839