รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Official Visit to Thailand of President of the Federal Republic of Germany and Spouse Between January 24 – 26, 2024


วันอังคารที่ 23 มกราคม 2567
23/01/2567
พิมพ์
​Official Visit to Thailand of President of the Federal Republic of Germany and Spouse Between January 24 – 26, 2024
​Official Visit to Thailand of President of the Federal Republic of Germany and Spouse Between January 24 – 26, 2024
January 23, 2024, Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed that Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin will have a bilateral meeting with H.E. Dr. Frank-Walter Steinmeier, President of the Federal Republic of Germany, on occasion of the latter’s official visit to Thailand as guest of the Thai Government during January 24-26, 2024.
The Prime Minister will chair the official welcoming ceremony for the German President and spouse on January 25, 2024 at the Government House, followed by a bilateral meeting between the two leaders, together with relevant ministers, where cooperation in the areas of mutual interest will be discussed. The Prime Minister will also meet with the German private sector. Later, the Prime Minister and the German President will hold a joint press conference, followed by a luncheon hosted by the Prime Minister in honor of the German President and spouse, and his delegation.
According to the Government Spokesperson, this official visit of the German President will be a good opportunity for reinforcing closer relations, tightening friendship, and advancing cooperation between the two countries in all dimensions on the basis of shared values and common interest, leading to an elevation of relations to Strategic Partnership. It will also boost confidence of the global community and cement Thailand’s image at the international stage.
The German President and his delegation are scheduled to observe the operation of Thailand’s potential industries, i.e., an automobile and EVs manufacturing plant, hydro floating solar hybrid power plant, and inclusive sustainable rice landscape project. He will also visit famous tourist attractions, such as Pha Taem National Park and Museum of Contemporary Art Bangkok.
This official visit is President Steinmeier’s first visit to Thailand since taking his office in 2022 and Thailand’s first official visit by Head of a foreign Government under the current Thai administration. The last German Presidential visit to Thailand was in 2002 by H.E. Mr. Johannes Rau, the former President of the Federal Republic of Germany.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/77881