รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM delivers intervention at Session I of 29th APEC Economic Leaders’ Retreat


วันศุกร์ที่ 18 พฤศจิกายน 2565
พิมพ์
PM delivers intervention at Session I of 29th APEC Economic Leaders’ Retreat
PM delivers intervention at Session I of 29th APEC Economic Leaders’ Retreat
November 18, 2022 at 09.30 hrs, at the Plenary Hall II, Queen Sirikit National Convention Center, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha delivered an intervention at Session I of the 29th APEC Economic Leaders’ Retreat on the topic: “Balanced, Inclusive and Sustainable Growth”. Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the Prime Minister’s intervention as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed APEC leaders to the 29th APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting, and expressed Thailand’s honor to host the first physical APEC meeting in four years to wrap up the discussions in the region on collective action in the recovery process and way forward.
According to the Prime Minister, up until now, APEC economies continue to grapple with the socio-economic consequences of COVID-19, which have been further exacerbated by global disruptions. More importantly, there is an existential threat of climate change not only for the Asia-Pacific region, but also for humanity as a whole. Collective response is, therefore, indispensable to mitigate its impact and protect the planet. Thailand adopted the Bio-Circular-Green (BCG) Economy Model as a recovery strategy from COVID-19 as well as a blueprint for long-term development and growth that are more robust, balanced, sustainable and inclusive.
The BCG Economy synergizes bio-, circular-, and green economic approaches, utilizing new technologies and innovation to create value, increase resource efficiency and promote environmental sustainability
o The Bio-Economy involves the production of renewable biological resources and bio-based materials and converting them into value-added products using technology and innovation.
o The Circular Economy envisages a regenerative production-consumption system where product, service and system design choices enable the elimination of waste and pollution while keeping existing materials in use.
o The Green Economy promotes responsible practices and sustainable business models that generate profits in tandem with social and environmental sustainability.
These three approaches are not new, but what sets the BCG Economy concept apart is how it recognizes that the various challenges the world is facing are cross-cutting and interconnected, and therefore, solutions cannot be siloed. For this reason, the BCG Economy underlines and advocates the integration of these approaches to maximize their multiplying effect and address their trade-offs. Through partnerships and whole-of-society engagement, the BCG Economy has delivered concrete results in improving the quality of life for the Thai people, enhancing opportunities for businesses, and restoring balance with nature.
As host of APEC 2022, Thailand introduced BCG Economy Model into the APEC’s conversation as an approach to achieve sustainability and climate objectives. With the BCG Economy concept as the basis, Thailand initiated a Bangkok Goals on BCG Economy as a signature deliverable for APEC Leaders in 2022. The Bangkok Goals will be a comprehensive framework to advance APEC’s sustainability under 4 goals: 1) supporting climate change efforts; 2) progressing sustainable trade and investment; 3) advancing environmental conservation; and 4) improving resource efficiency towards zero waste.
The Prime Minister also thanked APEC economies for their strong support in achieving consensus on the Bangkok Goals on BCG Economy, and looked forward to the endorsement of this important work, which will be a legacy of APEC 2022.
Building on this work, the Prime Minister proposed that APEC leaders discuss how the BCG Economy can translate the vision and direction laid out in the APEC Putrajaya Vision 2040 and the Aotearoa Plan of Action into concrete actions towards a sustainable growth trajectory for all the people and future generations. He, then, opened the floor for the interventions of APEC leaders (by alphabetical order).
Before the adjourning of the first Retreat of the 29th APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting, the Prime Minister expressed pleasure that APEC leaders came to an agreement to use the opportunity of recovering from COVID-19 to promote growth that is robust, balanced, inclusive and sustainable, and expressed confidence that the Bangkok Goals would be a compass that will guide APEC’s work in a holistic manner with a clear direction.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/61751