รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM emphasizes fair distribution of vaccines to ensure effectiveness of COVID-19 disease control


วันพุธที่ 9 มิถุนายน 2564
พิมพ์
PM emphasizes fair distribution of vaccines to ensure effectiveness of COVID-19 disease control
PM emphasizes fair distribution of vaccines to ensure effectiveness of COVID-19 disease control
June 8, 2021, at 1300hrs, at Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, following the weekly cabinet meeting, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha gave an update on COVID-19 vaccination, which is the Government’s national agenda, that the number of vaccines given on June 7, the kickoff day for mass vaccination nationwide, is over 400,000 doses. Cumulative number of people who have been inoculated is approx. 4.6 million, 3.2 million of whom received the 1st shot, and 1.4 million received both shots.
The Prime Minister, as head of the Center for COVID-19 Situation Administration (CCSA), emphasized CCSA’s principle on fair distribution of vaccines to ensure effectiveness of the disease control. Every province has been allocated the COVID-19 vaccines for them to start provincial mass vaccination all at the same time. Quantity of vaccines allocated to each province is subject to number of populations, ages, number of infected patients, risk groups and professions, and the province’s specific status as tourism or economic area. Each province is responsible for its own allocation of vaccines to hospitals in respective area, and people who have registered for vaccination should be vaccinated according to the date registered. The Prime Minister also apologized for an inconvenience the change or delay of vaccination may have caused, and ordered concerned agencies to immediately solve the problem.
He also affirmed that more vaccines would be available in the following months, as the Government has set the target to acquire 100 million doses and more of BioScience’s AstraZeneca, Sinovac, Pfizer, and Johnson & Johnson, as well as other vaccines to be made available under negotiations with other countries. Locally-made vaccines are also expected to become available next year.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/42567