รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM discloses key cabinet resolutions


วันพุธที่ 9 มิถุนายน 2564
พิมพ์
PM discloses key cabinet resolutions
PM discloses key cabinet resolutions
June 8, 2021, at 1300hrs, at Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, following the weekly cabinet meeting, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha disclosed some of the resolutions made at the cabinet meeting, gist of which is as follows:
1. “Jub Khu Goo Ngern (Loan Pairing)”, which has been launched on June 7, 2021, following the cabinet’s resolution assigning concerned agencies to implement measures to assist over 120,000 restaurant entrepreneurs across the country. The scheme will enable these restaurant entrepreneurs to get access to a special-conditioned soft loan from Thai Credit Guarantee Corporation (TCG), SME Bank, Government’s Savings Bank, Krung Thai Bank, and Bank of Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperative in a bid to help sustain their businesses without laying off the employees. The scheme will be implemented under the collaboration of Ministry of Commerce, Ministry of Finance, and the private sector.
2. The cabinet also approved a loan under the Royal Decree authorizing Ministry of Finance to seek loan for economic and social problem solving, remedy, and rehabilitation as a result of spread of COVID-19, B.E. 2563 (1-trillion Baht Loan), for procurement of medical equipment to be used for COVID-19 screening test and treatment, i.e., COVID-19 test kits, pulse oximeters, ventilators, ambulances, and advanced cardiovascular life supports. According to the Prime Minister, the cabinet has so far approved the total amount of 984,000 million Baht (73% of which have been disbursed) out of the 1-trillion Baht loan.
3. The cabinet approved the budget of over 2.2 billion Baht for a scheme to employ 10,000 new graduates (undergraduate level) as temporary state employees in a bid to alleviate their plights during the COVID-19 situation. Successful candidates will be hired by state agencies, especially in the provincial areas, with the employment contract of not over one year. They will receive 18,000 Baht in salary, and full benefits earned by a state employee.
4. The cabinet also acknowledged the “Phuket Sandbox”, as proposed by the Committee for Economic Situation Administration (CESA), to reopen Phuket to vaccinated foreign tourists. The Phuket Sandbox will be taken as a kickoff project for other 9 provinces to be reopened for vaccinated foreign tourists in the 3rd and 4th semesters of this year. As of now, over 60% of Phuket population have been vaccinated. Tourists who wish to visit the province without a 14-day quarantine must have COVID-19 vaccination certificate valid a minimum of 14 days to one year before their arrival in Phuket, and must travel from any of the medium to low-risk countries identified by Ministry of Public Health.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/42555