รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM pleased with Thailand being ranked in Top 10 international travel destinations of Asia-Pacific region


วันอังคารที่ 20 มิถุนายน 2566
20/06/2566
พิมพ์
PM pleased with Thailand being ranked in Top 10 international travel destinations of Asia-Pacific region
PM pleased with Thailand being ranked in Top 10 international
travel destinations of Asia-Pacific region
June 19, 2023, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government
Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen.
Prayut Chan-o-cha acknowledged Mastercard Economics Institute’s report on “Travel Industry
Trends 2023”, and was pleased with Thailand’s rank in the Top 10 international travel
destinations of the Asia-Pacific region.
According to the report, Thailand, with its unique charm and experiences, has emerged as a hot
spot for travelers seeking to experience new cultures and destinations, as well for those looking
to reconnect with the familiarity of this enchantingly mesmerizing and vibrant destination. The
country has seen a significant increase in spending on experiences, up 40.5% compared to
2019, with spending on things possessions up by 24%.
Mastercard Economics Institute also reported about tourism situation in the Asia Pacific
countries that:
1) Leisure and business travel are growing at the same pace, with flight bookings up 31%
in March 2023 compared to the same month in 2019. In early 2023, corporate flight
bookings caught up to leisure flight bookings driven by regions with a strong return to
office culture
2) Mainland China’s reopening benefits global and Asia Pacific tourism. Economies in the
Asia Pacific region could be obvious beneficiaries of China’s opening, given their strong
ties to international trade, tourism, and geographical proximity
3) Travelers establish new corridors and are starting to venture further from home to new
locations.
4) Tourists continue to prioritize experiences. Preference for experiences over things
persists, and travelers are demonstrating new demand for the unique. As of March 2023,
global spending on experiences was up 65% while spending on things is up 12%
compared to 2019
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Prime Minister is confident in Thailand’s
tourism potential which would significantly contribute to the Thai economy. He also instructed
all concerned sectors to keep up with tourism trends, and synergize Thai identities, way of life,
local wisdoms, arts and culture into modern tourism in a bid to serve the changing demand of
tourists.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/69436