รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Govt to conduct feasibility study on Thailand’s hosting of Formula One (F1)


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 20 มีนาคม 2568
20/03/2568
พิมพ์
Govt to conduct feasibility study on Thailand’s hosting of Formula One (F1)
Govt to conduct feasibility study on Thailand’s hosting of Formula One (F1)
March 18, 2025, Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed that Mr. Stefano Domenicali, CEO of Formula One Group, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra. Participating in the meeting were Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Transport Suriya Jungrungreangkit and Minister of Tourism and Sports Sorawong Thienthong.
The Prime Minister welcomed back CEO of the Formula One Group to the Government House, and affirmed the Government’s readiness to conduct a feasibility study on Thailand’s hosting of the Formula One (F1). This meeting follows the previous meeting between CEO of the Formula One Group and former Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin in 2024, and is in line with the Government’s policy to promote Thailand as world’s destination for MICE and sporting events.
The Prime Minister thanked Mr. Domenicali for seeing Thailand’s potential. Such world-class sporting event not only demonstrates Thailand’s capability to host international events, but also significantly bolster the country’s economy and tourism. All relevant agencies will work together to perform feasibility analysis, especially with regard to race location, related investments, and overall feasibility of hosting the Formula One.
According to the Chairman of Formula One Group, hosting of the Formula One (F1) would bring about multiple opportunities and benefits to Thailand, especially in terms of economy and tourism. Thailand has a strong motorsport fan base and may leverage famous racers to promote spin-off activities and events. F1 will also contribute to the country’s tourism promotion, especially in encouraging tourists to stay longer in Thailand to explore unique Thai culture. Formula One Group is aware of Thailand’s potential and infrastructure, and commits to work closely with the Thai Government in conducting the feasibility study in a bid to offer memorable experiences to motorsport fans around the globe.
Chairman of Formula One Group added that the company strives to engage local culture in organizing the race in each country. F1 has continued to grow with over 1.61 million fan bases, diverse in age and gender. The company also places great importance on high safety standard and immersive experiences to make F1 a platform that connects people from all over the world. The Prime Minister also reaffirmed the Thai Government’s commitment to work with all concerned sectors on exploring the feasibility of Thailand’s hosting of the F1 and promoting public awareness on related opportunities and benefits.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/94552