รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM instructs concerned agencies to prepare for increasing level of PM2.5 during rainfall deficit period


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 20 มีนาคม 2568
20/03/2568
พิมพ์
PM instructs concerned agencies to prepare for increasing level of PM2.5 during rainfall deficit period
PM instructs concerned agencies to prepare for increasing level of PM2.5 during rainfall deficit period
March 19, 2025, at 1130hrs, at the Air Pollution Coordination and Resolution Center, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra presided over the meeting on monitoring and tackling of PM2.5 airborne pollution. Participating in the meeting were Minister of Natural Resources and Environment Chalermchai Sri-on, Permanent Secretary to Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment Jatuporn Buruspat, Director General of the Pollution Control Department Preeyaporn Suwanaged, Prime Minister’s Secretary General Prommin Lertsuridej, and representatives from concerned agencies. Deputy Government Spokesperson Sasikarn Watthanachan disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister listened to the briefing of Director General of the Pollution Control Department, and stated that PM2.5 still poses a problem in the North due to dust and smoke from the neighboring countries, whereas domestically, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, Ministry of Industry, Ministry of Interior, Royal Forest Department, Department of National Parks, Wildlife and Plant Conservation, and other related agencies, have worked in an integrated manner to tackle the problem through implementing a number of proactive measures. As a result, PM2.5 particulates have reduced by 16% nationwide and over 20% in some areas, compared to the previous year. This is also thanks to stricter law enforcement and better public awareness. The Prime Minister added that with the Government’s approval of budget allocation, at the amount of 620 million Baht, to tackle wildfire, hotspots have decreased considerably.
Nevertheless, the next 60 days will be a critical period due to rainfall deficit which may cause higher levels of PM2.5. Relevant agencies have been instructed to warn the public for advance preparation. Ministry of Public Health is responsible for providing the necessities for those at risk, especially in the border areas.
Haze problem has now become a national agenda as it directly affects people’s quality of life. Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, as core agency, will liaise with all relevant agencies and sectors in coping with PM2.5 in all aspects. The Prime Minister also thanked all concerned agencies for their effort in coordinating with the neighboring countries to address haze at the regional level. She assured the public that the Government has taken haze problem and PM2.5 seriously, and will come up with more measures to mitigate its effect against the environment and people’s health.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/94578