รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on Oct 18, 2022.


วันจันทร์ที่ 24 ตุลาคม 2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on Oct 18, 2022.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Waiver on requirement of presenting medical certificate and pickup of e-work permit in person for long-term resident (LTR) visa holders
The cabinet approved the followings:
Approved waiver on requirement of presenting medical certificate and pickup of e-work permit in person for long-term resident (LTR) visa holders, as proposed by Ministry of Labor
Approved in principle the draft Announcement of Ministry of Labor on allowing foreigners to work in the Kingdom as a special case as part of the Government’s economic stimulus plan to attract foreign residents, technologies and talent to stay or work in the country (No. …)
Title: Request for allocation of Government’s central fund for contingency and emergency (FY2023) for cooking gas subsidy for low-income earners
The cabinet approved 302.5 million Baht in budget from the Government’s central fund for contingency and emergency to the Department of Energy Business. This is as proposed by Ministry of Energy.
Gist
The budget will be used to subsidize cooking gas expenses for approx. 5.5 million state welfare card holders. The 100 baht per month subsidy will be given for 3 months through the state welfare card to alleviate the burden of low-income earners during October 25 and December 31, 2022.
Title: Draft Cooperation Agreement on Enhancing Climate Resilience in the Greater Mekong Sub-region through Ecosystem-based Adaptation in the Context of South-South Cooperation
The cabinet approved the draft Cooperation Agreement on Enhancing Climate Resilience in the Greater Mekong Sub-region through Ecosystem-based Adaptation in the Context of South-South Cooperation, and authorized Director-General of the Water Resources Department as signatory of the draft Cooperation Agreement. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, through Water Resources Department, may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet (United Nations Environment Programme: UNEP). This is as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment.
Gist
Cooperation Agreement on Enhancing Climate Resilience in the Greater Mekong Sub-region through Ecosystem-based Adaptation in the Context of South-South Cooperation is aimed to build climate resilience and generate adaptation knowledge from diverse environmental and socio-economic contexts. The project is financially supported by the Adaptation Fund (AF) for the total amount of US$6.452 million. In Thailand, the project will be implemented in the Lam Nam Yang Basin, covering Kalasin, Roi-Et, Yasothorn, Mukdaharn, and Sakon Nakhon provinces.
Title: The 27th session of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Conference of the Parties (UNFCCC COP 27) and related meetings
The cabinet acknowledged Thailand’s position at the 27th session of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Conference of the Parties (UNFCCC COP 27) and related meetings, to be held during November 3-18, 2022 in Sharm el-Sheikh, South Sinai, Arab Republic of Egypt.
The proposals of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment have been acknowledged and approved as follows:
Acknowledged the Thai delegation at COP27 and related meetings, which will be led by Minister of Natural Resources and Environment Varawut Silpa-archa, Permanent Secretary to Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, and chiefs of concerned agencies.
Approved Thailand’s position at COP27. Should there will be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
Approved Thailand’s Long-Term Low Greenhouse Gas Emission Development Strategy: LT-LEDS (Revised Version) to be submitted to UNFCCC
Approved the 2nd Updated Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC) to be submitted to UNFCCC
Gist
Thailand’s negotiation framework will be in accordance with the principle of the Paris Agreement, and in line with the country’s policy, strategy, and plan on climate change. Thailand has become one of the first Parties that ratified the Paris Agreement, under which a goal is set to limit global warming to no more than 1.5-2 degrees Celsius by 2100. The country was also among the first nations to submit the revised Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC) and the Long-Term Low GHG Emissions Development Strategy (LT-LEDS) to UNFCCC, of which the detail is as follows:
Revisions made on the Long-Term Low GHG Emissions Development Strategy (LT-LEDS) include:
Revise the deadline for greenhouse gas reduction (by 20-25%) from 2030 to 2025 (5 years earlier)
Revise the deadline for reaching carbon neutrality from 2065 to 2050 (15 years earlier)
Revise the deadline for net zero gas emission from 2100 to 2065 (35 years earlier)
Reiterate agendas that Thailand needs assistance and support, especially advanced technology transfer and climate change adaptation and mitigation
The 2nd Updated Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC) saw the revision of short-term goal to be in line with LT-LEDS, which includes reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 30-40% from the projected business-as-usual (BAU) level by 2030, among others.
Thailand’s negotiation principle at COP27 will be on the basis of fairness, taking into account different capacity of member countries, sustainable development, poverty eradication, and non-discrimination. It is also important that the developed countries play a leading role in continually reducing GHG emission.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/60800