รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​The cabinet met on Oct 25, 2022.


วันจันทร์ที่ 31 ตุลาคม 2565
พิมพ์
​The cabinet met on Oct 25, 2022.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Extension of personal income tax exemption for community enterprises
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Finance Ministerial Regulation  issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Revenue Taxes (No. …), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Finance.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation prescribes 3-year extension of personal income tax exemption for community enterprises (non-registered ordinary partnership and non-juristic body of persons only) whose annual income does not exceed 1.8 million Baht. This income tax exemption will take effect from January 1, 2023 to December 31, 2025. The aim is to alleviate tax burden of community enterprises registered with the Department of Agricultural Extension, enabling them to grow and expand into SMEs in the future.
The Government will not lose any additional revenue from putting in place this tax measure since community enterprises have been exempted of personal income tax since 2008. In 2021, 1,350 community enterprises were benefited from the tax measure. The total of 3.1 million Baht was exempted from the assessable income of 582.3 million Baht.
Title: State Enterprise Development Plan (2023-2027)
The cabinet approved the draft State Enterprise Development Plan (2023-2027), proposed by State Enterprise Policy Office, which is developed with an aim to enhance capacity of 52 state enterprises toward sustainable economic development and national strategic goals.
Gist
Development direction for each state enterprise has been set in line with the 13 milestones of the 13th National Economic and Social Development Plan, and their respective role and mission, i.e., 1) infrastructure, 2) basic public services, 3) businesses with inadequate private sector operation, 4) Government-controlled businesses, and 5) support missions.
Sector wise, the draft State Enterprise Development Plan (2023-2027) will set the development directions for: 1) Transport: transport and logistics network management, focusing on rail transport; 2) Energy: acquisition of new energy sources and use of environmentally-friendly renewable energy; 3) Public utilities, water and wastewater infrastructure development; 4) Financial institution: creating opportunity on access to funding sources along with promoting financial literacy; 5) Communication: promoting and developing digital economy; 6) Agriculture: enhancing production and marketing capacity; 7) Natural Resources: building community and public awareness on national resource utilization; 8) Industry and commerce: managing organization with good governance and modern technology; and 9) Socio-technology: promoting tourism and sports, and researches and innovation.
Not only the draft State Enterprise Development Plan (2023-2027) benefits the 52 state enterprises, it also promotes operation integration among them, both in terms of planning and resource sharing, hence, enhancing operational efficiency, and reducing cost and work redundancy. Utmost benefit will go to the public who will receive quality, easily-accessible and equitable services.
Title: Joint Plan of Action to Implement the Thailand-Australia Strategic Partnership 2022-2025
The cabinet approved the draft Joint Plan of Action to Implement the Thailand-Australia Strategic Partnership 2022-2025, as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The development of the Joint Plan of Action has been stipulated in the Joint Declaration on Thailand-Australia Strategic Partnership, signed by the Prime Ministers of both countries on November 13, 2020, and will be signed during an official visit of Senator the Honourable Penny Wong, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Australia, to Thailand during November 1-2, 2022.
Gist
The draft Joint Plan of Action to Implement the Thailand-Australia Strategic Partnership 2022-2025 details plans, projects, and activities in multi-dimensional areas of cooperation:
Political cooperation, which includes military and new forms of security, and suppression of transnational crimes, narcotics, and trafficking in person
Economic cooperation, including the BCG economy and digital economy
Sectoral cooperation, i.e., public health, agriculture, education, science, technology and research, energy, environment, and disaster management
People-to-people connectivity, and
Regional and subregional cooperation
December 19, 2022 will mark the 70th anniversary of the diplomatic relations between Thailand and Australia, and the signing of the draft Joint Plan of Action to Implement the Thailand-Australia Strategic Partnership 2022-2025 will be part of the 70th anniversary celebration and a testimony to the cordial relations and cooperation between the two countries towards post-COVID19 recovery.
Title: Phnom Penh Declaration on Transforming ASEAN Tourism
The cabinet approved adoption of the Phnom Penh Declaration on Transforming ASEAN Tourism, as proposed by Ministry of Tourism and Sports.
Gist
The Phnom Penh Declaration on Transforming ASEAN Tourism has been adopted at the 25th Meeting of ASEAN Tourism Ministers (25th M-ATM) and related meetings on January 19, 2022 with an aim to expressed joint intent of ASEAN member countries in promoting ASEAN’s post-COVID-19 tourism recovery through close cooperation between member countries, and boosting confidence of the travelers in the ASEAN region. The Phnom Penh Declaration on Transforming ASEAN Tourism will be proposed to ASEAN leaders at the 40th ASEAN Summit, to be held during November 10-13, 2022 in the Kingdom of Cambodia.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/61036