รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on Oct 11, 2022.


วันจันทร์ที่ 17 ตุลาคม 2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on Oct 11, 2022.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Bangkok (Bang Khae district’s North Bang Khae and Lak Song subdistricts, and Nong Khaem district’s Nong Khang Phlu and Nong Khaem subdistricts), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Bangkok (Bang Khae district’s North Bang Khae and Lak Song subdistricts, and Nong Khaem district’s Nong Khang Phlu and Nong Khaem subdistricts), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Interior. Ministry of Interior shall take comments of Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, Office of National Economic and Social Development Council, and Official of Council of State into consideration.
Gist
The Royal Decree prescribes areas in Bangkok (Bang Khae district’s North Bang Khae and Lak Song subdistricts, and Nong Khaem district’s Nong Khang Phlu and Nong Khaem subdistricts) to be expropriated for construction and expansion of a local road, connecting Thawi Watthana and Bang Bon 3 Roads. Land survey and appropriation shall commence within 120 days after the Royal Decree is in effect.
Title: Draft Royal Decree on convocation of second ordinary session of the National Assembly, B.E. …
The Cabinet approved in principle the Draft Royal Decree on convocation of the second legislative ordinary session of the National Assembly, B.E. …, as proposed by the Cabinet Secretariat.
According to Section 121 of the Constitution of the Kingdom of Thailand, each year there shall be two ordinary sessions of the National Assembly, each of which shall last 120 days. The day on which the first sitting is held shall be considered the commencement date of the first annual ordinary session, and the commencement date of the second annual ordinary session shall be fixed by the House of Representatives.
In light of the above, the convocation and prorogation dates of the National Assembly are set as follows:
Year
First annual ordinary session (B.E.)
Second annual ordinary session (B.E.)
1
22 May 2562 – 18 September 2562
1 November 2562 – 28 February 2563
2
22 May 2563 – 18 September 2563
1 November 2563 – 28 February 2564
3
22 May 2564 – 18 September 2564
1 November 2564 – 28 February 2565
4
22 May 2565 – 18 September 2565
1 November 2565 – 28 February 2566
It is, therefore, appropriate for the second annual ordinary session of the National Assembly to be convoked from November 1, 2022 (2565) onward.
Title: Draft Announcement of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment on Enforcement Extension of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment’s Announcement on Zoning and Protection Measures for Phuket Province, B.E. 2560 (2017)
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Announcement of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment on Enforcement Extension of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment’s Announcement on Zoning and Protection Measures for Phuket Province, B.E. 2560 (2017).
Gist
The draft Announcement prescribes enforcement extension of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment’s Announcement on Zoning and Protection Measures for Phuket Province for another 2 years from December 16, 2022 onward. This is to ensure continuation of environment protection measures while the Ministry is working on the improvement of environment protection in Phuket province.
Title: Andaman International Medical Center project
The cabinet approved Andaman International Medical Center project in Phuket, as proposed by Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation. Construction period is for 5 years (2023- 2027), and the approved budget totals 5,116 million Baht (FY2023: 1,291 million, FY2024: 1,656 million, FY2025: 1,476 million, FY2026: 498 million, and FY2027: 193 million Baht).
Gist
Andaman International Medical Center will serve as a medical facility for tertiary care and specializations. It will also be an R&D center in healthcare and wellness, and a training center for medical personnel, i.e., doctors, nurses, dentists, pharmacists, medical technicians, and others. The aim is to boost confidence among locals and travelers in the Andaman provinces on Thailand’s reliable and quality medical care, and to promote the country as medical and medical tourism hub in line with the 20-Year National Strategy.
With 300 beds in capacity, Andaman International Medical Center will be able to handle 12,500 complicated cases/year, and over 300,000 out-patients/year. Annual revenue is estimated at approx. 1.6 billion Baht. Its dental facility is also expected to generate revenue of no less than 300 million Baht/year. The Center will produce 110 personnel in public health and health science per year, and provide training and skill enhancement to no less than 1,000 personnel/year. It will also promote medical tourism in the Andaman provinces, and increase local tourism value by over 10% or approx. 62 billion Baht per year.
Title: Approval of Joint Statement of the Twelveth ASEAN Education Ministers Meeting and other related meetings
The cabinet approved 3 joint statements, as proposed by Ministry of Education:
Joint Statement of the Twelveth ASEAN Education Ministers Meeting
Joint Statement of the Sixth ASEAN Plus Three Education Ministers Meeting
Joint Statement of the Sixth East Asia Summit Education Ministers Meeting
The cabinet also authorized Minister of Education or a representative to adopt the aforementioned joint statements.
Title: Approval of documents to be adopted at the 6th Summit of Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia (CICA)
The cabinet approved 5 documents to be adopted at the 6th Summit of Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia (CICA), as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs:
Draft  Decision  of the CICA Summit Meeting Regulations of the Fund of the Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia
Draft CICA Leader’s Statement on Cooperation in the Field of Security of and in the Use of Information and Communication Technologies
Draft CICA Plan of Action on the Implementation of the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy
Draft Astana Statement on CICA Transformation
Draft Conclusions of the 6th CICA Summit
Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Representative of Ministry of Foreign Affairs is authorized to adopt the 5 documents at the 6th CICA Summit.
Title: Approval of outcome documents of 28th ASEAN Transport Ministers (ATM) Meeting and related meetings
The cabinet approved 9 outcome documents to be adopted at the 28th ASEAN Transport Ministers (ATM) Meeting and related meetings, as proposed by Ministry of Transport:
Draft Implementation Framework on Enhancing Container Processing and Circulation in ASEAN Member States
Technical Reference for Bridge Maintenance in ASEAN Cross - Border Corridors (Draft)
Draft Guiding Principles for the Regulation of Application - based Mobility Services for Passenger Transport in ASEAN
Booklet of Best Practices in Port Security Measures for Training of Trainer (ToT) Manual and Model Audit Training Program (Draft)
ASEAN Guideline on Airport Environmental Management System (AIRPORT EMS) Final Draft
Draft Joint Ministerial Statement for the Twenty - Eighth ASEAN Transport Ministers (28th ATM) Meeting)
Draft Joint Ministerial Statement for the Twenty - First ASEAN - China Transport Ministers (21st ATM - China) Meeting
Draft Joint Ministerial Statement for the Twentieth ASEAN - Japan (20th ATM - Japan) Meeting)
Draft Joint Ministerial Statement for the Thirteenth ASEAN - Republic of Korea Transport Ministers (13th ATM - ROK) Meeting
Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Transport may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Transport or a representative is authorized to adopt the 9 documents at the 28th ASEAN Transport Ministers (ATM) Meeting and related meetings.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/60518