รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​The cabinet met on Sep 13, 2022.


วันจันทร์ที่ 19 กันยายน 2565
พิมพ์
​The cabinet met on Sep 13, 2022.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft National Forest development Master Plan
The cabinet approved the draft National Forest development Master Plan (2022-2037), as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment.
Gist
The draft National Forest development Master Plan (2022-2037) is aimed to translate national policy on forest management into action, and to increase at least 40% of forest areas by the year 2037 (at least 25% of conserved forest, and 15% of economic and community forest). Thirty-five measures have been set, and will be translated into concrete action and outcome. The draft National Forest development Master Plan (2022-2037) has been approved by the National Forest Policy Committee.
Title: Request for approval of Government’s contingency fund for emergency (FY2022) for National Village and Community Fund Office
The cabinet approved budget allocation of Government’s contingency fund for emergency (FY2022) for the total amount of 714,647,500 Baht to National Village and Community Fund Office for the mitigation of people’s plight under National Village and Community Fund for basic utilities and for the Office’s expenses on public services. This is as proposed by National Village and Community Fund Office.
Title: “Joint Support for the Recovery of the Civil Aviation Sector” Document
The cabinet approved the “Joint Support for the Recovery of the Civil Aviation Sector” Document, and authorized Ministry of Transport to notify Ministry of Transport of the Republic of Singapore on the approval. This is as proposed by Ministry of Transport.
Gist
“Joint Support for the Recovery of the Civil Aviation Sector” Document recognizes the significant impact from the COVID-19 pandemic on the global air transport sector, and support collaborative action among ASEAN States, international organizations, industry and relevant stakeholders, to work closely to rebuild and restore air travel connectivity and the civil aviation sector urgently. This includes facilitating the development of the ASEAN Single Aviation Market, strengthening air connectivity between Southeast Asia and other regions, especially through instruments with ASEAN Dialogue Partners, encouraging the development of a common set of public health and safety measures to protect the well-being and safety of travellers and transport workers, and promoting training and capacity building to support the recovery and growth of the civil aviation sector, among others.
Title: Declaration of Intent on PREZODE (Preventing Zoonotic Disease Emergence)
The cabinet approved in principle the Declaration of Intent on PREZODE (Preventing Zoonotic Disease Emergence). Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Pubic Health may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Public Health, or a representative is authorized as signatory of PREZODE Declaration of Intent. This is as proposed by Ministry of Public Health.
Gist
PREZODE (Preventing ZOonotic Disease Emergence) is an innovative international initiative with the ambition to understand the risks of emergence of zoonotic infectious diseases, to develop and implement innovative methods to improve prevention, early detection, and resilience in order to ensure rapid response to the risks of emerging infectious diseases of animal origin.
PREZODE aims to propose a framework for coordinating research projects, monitoring networks, and operational projects to strengthen this continuum and maximize their impact. It also aims to serve as a platform for sharing knowledge acquired through past, current, and future projects and capitalizing on experiments in different regions of the world. Thus, the gathered resources will be available to decision-makers to enable the implementation of public policies to reduce the risk of emergence of zoonotic infectious diseases. These activities will be performed in close collaboration with the One-Health High-Level Expert Panel announced on November 12th, 2020, at the Paris Peace Forum.
At present, participation countries of PREZODE are Mexico, Belgium, Vietnam, Zimbubwe, Costa Rica, Heiti, Cambodia, Uruguay, Dominican, and Senegal.
Title: Grant Agreement on Phuket Smart City Technical Assistant Package
The cabinet approved in principle the Grant Agreement on Phuket Smart City Technical Assistant Package between Digital Economy Promotion Agency (DEPA) and US Trade and Development Agency (USTDA), as proposed by Ministry of Digital Economy and Society. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Digital Economy and Society may proceed and inform the cabinet later of the change. Director-General of Digital Economy Promotion Agency (DEPA) or a representative is authorized as signatory of the Grant Agreement. This is as proposed by Ministry of Digital Economy and Society.
Gist
The Grant Agreement, which will take effect for 5 years, is aimed to: 1) promote academic and technical assistance for Phuket Smart City project, and assistance in the development of ICT infrastructure in Phuket province; 2) provide technical advices on smart city management, city data platform, development of command center, city infrastructure assessment, and application of digital technology in a tangible manner; and 3) provide advices on technical skill development, and training program development for concerned technical personnel.
The scope of cooperation includes: 1) collection of data related to Phuket Smart City development for analysis and technical assistance planning; 2) provision of detailed technical advices and operation plan, as well as options for the planning on infrastructure and urban development planning and designing of Phuket province, among others.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/59404