รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​The cabinet met on Sep 27, 2022.


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 29 กันยายน 2565
พิมพ์
​The cabinet met on Sep 27, 2022.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Announcement of Ministry of Interior on special permission for some classes of aliens to stay in the kingdom for highly skilled manpower, investors, executives and startups entrepreneurs (No. …), B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Announcement of Ministry of Interior on special permission for some classes of aliens to stay in the kingdom for highly skilled manpower, investors, executives and startups entrepreneurs (No. …), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Interior.
Gist
The draft Announcement of Ministry of Interior on special permission for some classes of aliens to stay in the kingdom for highly skilled manpower, investors, executives and startups entrepreneurs (No. …), B.E. …, prescribes expansion of targeted industries eligible for the application of smart visa from 13 to 18 S-Curve industries. Additional 5 industries are: National Defense Industry, Industries that facilitate the Circular Economy directly and significantly (e.g., fuel production from waste, water resources management, etc.), Aviation and Aerospace Industry, Technology  Innovation and Startup Ecosystem Management, Targeted Technology Development, and International Business Center (IBC).
Privileges for those who are granted smart visa include extension of 90-day reporting to the Immigration at the One Stop Service Center to 1 year, no requirement of re-entry permit, permission for spouse and children to stay/work in Thailand for the same duration as the smart visa holder, among others.
The draft Announcement of Ministry of Interior on special permission for some classes of aliens to stay in the kingdom for highly skilled manpower, investors, executives and startups entrepreneurs (No. …), B.E. … will attract talents and technologies with a view to further developing the country’s targeted industries or the so-called S-Curve industries, and respond to “Thailand 4.0” policy.
Title: Guideline for Promotion of Coexistence under Social Differences
The cabinet approved the guideline for promotion of coexistence under multicultural and social diversity, which will be adopted and implemented by concerned agencies to promote coexistence in the Thai society with respect for differences, as proposed by the National Security Council. Focus will be made on the principle of tolerance and middle path to prevent and respond to violent extremism of all kinds. National Security Council is to take into consideration the recommendations of Ministry of Pubic Health and Office of National Economic and Social Development Council.
Gist
The Guideline for Promotion of Coexistence under Social Differences include:
Preventing political, socio-economic, and ICT conflicts, physical and online dissemination of extremism
Deterring political, socio-economic, and ICT factors and conditions that would lead to extremism, and stopping proliferation of extremism
Rehabilitating extremists to return to the middle path and the society
Title: Request for budget from Government’s contingency fund for emergency for remuneration of health volunteers
The cabinet approved the budget framework of 2,100.61 million Baht from the Government’s contingency fund for emergency to pay for the remuneration and compensation to village health volunteers and Bangkok health volunteers for their duties in monitoring, preventing, and controlling the spread of COVID-19 pandemic in respective communities. This is as proposed by Ministry of Public Health.
Gist
Ministry of Public Health’s Department of Health Service Support assessed that the COVID-19 situation has not yet come to an end, and it is, therefore, necessary to continue tasking health volunteers until the end of September 2022 to monitor, prevent, and control the spread of the disease, as well as to prepare communities for the post-pandemic phase.
With the approved budget, 1,039,729 village health volunteers and 10,577 Bangkok health volunteers, altogether 1,050,306 people, will receive 500 Baht/person/month for 4 months (June -September 2022) for a total of 2,000 Baht/person. During the period of October 2021- September 2022, the Government has made approval to the total budget of 6,301.83 million Baht (approx. 6,000 Baht/person) to be paid as remuneration of the health volunteers for their duties in COVID-19 monitoring, prevention, and control.
Title: Joint Statement of the ASEAN – U.S. Ministerial Dialogue on Gender Equality and Women’s Empowerment
The cabinet approved in principle to the Joint Statement of the ASEAN - U.S. Ministerial Dialogue on Gender Equality and Women's Empowerment, to be held on September 29, 2022 via a teleconference. This is as proposed by Ministry of Social Development and Human Security.
Gist
The draft Joint Statement of the ASEAN - U.S. Ministerial Dialogue on Gender Equality and Women's Empowerment prescribes: 1) the importance of gender equality, women’s empowerment, related international laws, and eradication of violence against women and children; 2) promotion of women’s economic security and entrepreneurship, and their participation in the ASEAN workforce and market; 3) implementation according to the ASEAN Gender Mainstreaming Strategic Framework (2021-2025), ASEAN Committee on Women’s roadmap, and other related ASEAN frameworks; 4) building of conducive and safe environment for women’s economic empowerment and investment; and 5) the importance to eliminate gender violence.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/59810