รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on Sep 20, 2022


วันจันทร์ที่ 26 กันยายน 2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on Sep 20, 2022
The cabinet met on Sep 20, 2022. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Nong Khai province (Muang district’s Nong Kom Koh subdistrict), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Nong Khai province (Muang district’s Nong Kom Koh subdistrict), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Transport. Ministry of Transport shall take comments of Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, and Official of Council of State into consideration.
Gist
The Royal Decree prescribes areas in Nong Khai province (Muang district’s Nong Kom Koh subdistrict) to be expropriated for construction of a local road connecting Highway no. 2 and Na Tha Train Station. Land survey and appropriation shall commence within 180 days after the Royal Decree is in effect.
Title: Draft Announcement of Ministry of Interior on extension of stay in the Kingdom of certain types of aliens as a special case
The cabinet approved the draft Announcement of Ministry of Interior on extension of stay in the Kingdom of certain types of aliens as a special case, as proposed by Ministry of Interior.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Announcement prescribes extension of stay for the following types of aliens in the Kingdom:
Visa on Arrival stay for passport holders of 19 eligible countries will be extended from 15 days to 30 days.
Visa exemption stay for passport holders from 64 countries which have bilateral agreements with Thailand will be extended from 30 days to 45 days.
Extension of stay from 30 days to 45 days for aliens who are allowed to temporarily enter the Kingdom without visa (Por. 30)
The extension of stay under the draft Ministerial Announcement will take effect during October 1, 2022- March 31, 2023. The approval was made by the cabinet to further boost the country’s tourism activities for national economic recovery and revenue increase.
Title: Removal of COVID-19 from list of prohibited diseases for aliens entering or having residency in Thailand
The cabinet approved the draft Interior Ministerial Regulation prescribing prohibited diseases for aliens entering or having residency in the Kingdom, as proposed by Ministry of Interior.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation is a revision to the Regulation of Ministry of Interior on prohibited diseases for aliens entering the Kingdom or having residency in the Kingdom, B.E. 2563 (2020), according to which COVID-19 has been removed from the list of prohibited diseases prescribed under Sections 12 (4) and 44 (2) of the Immigration Act, B.E. 2522. The draft Interior Ministerial Regulation prescribing prohibited diseases for aliens entering the Kingdom or having residency in the Kingdom will take effect the day after it being announced in the Royal Gazette.
Other prohibited diseases, prescribed under Sections 12 (4) of the Immigration Act, B.E. 2522, include 1) Leprosy; 2) TB at dangerous stage; 3) Lymphatic filariasis (elephantiasis); 4) Drug addiction; and 5) Stage-3 syphilis, and those prescribed under Sections 44 (2) are: 1) Leprosy; 2) TB at dangerous stage; 3) Lymphatic filariasis (elephantiasis); 4) Drug addiction; 5) Alcoholism; and 6) Stage-3 syphilis. These diseases remain on the list of prohibited diseases for aliens entering the Kingdom or having residency in the Kingdom.
Title: 5th SME Promotion Master Plan for 2023-2027
The cabinet approved the 5th SME Promotion Master Plan (2023-2027) as a framework for Thailand’s SMEs development and promotion, and a guideline for the development of SME action and budgeting plans for an integrative operation between all concerned agencies. This is as proposed by Office of Small and Medium Enterprise Promotion (OSMEP).
Gist
The draft 5th SME Promotion Master Plan (2023-2027) identifies 3 areas of development and 15 strategies:
1)       Promoting inclusive growth: Strategies under this area of development include maintaining business operation stability during the start of business, enhancing business capacity and competitiveness at the global standard, supporting elderly business operators, promoting business survival, and promoting farmers’ business professionalism, among others.
2)       Promoting targeted growth: Strategies under this area of development include increasing domestic market share, and internationalizing businesses, etc.
3)       Developing environments conducive to business growth: Strategies under this area of development include promoting access to funding, enhancing personnel and labor skills, revising related laws and regulations, and developing data system, among others.
Key strategies added in the 5th SME Promotion Master Plan, comparing to the preceding 4th SME Promotion Plan, are supporting elderly business operators, and promoting farmers’ business professionalism.
Title: Outcome of 1/2022 meeting of National Policy Committee for the Development of Special Economic Zones
The cabinet acknowledged and approved the following proposals of Office of National Economic and Social Development Council (NESDC), in its capacity as secretary of the National Policy Committee for the Development of Special Economic Zones:
Acknowledged outcome of 1/2022 meeting of National Policy Committee for the Development of Special Economic Zones, and ordered concerned agencies to proceed accordingly.
Approved identification of areas for each economic corridor as follows:
Northern Economic Corridor: NEC - Creative LANNA: Chiang Rai, Chiang Mai, Lamphun, and Lampang provinces
Northeastern Economic Corridor: NeEC – Bioeconomy: Nakhon Ratchasima, Khon Kaen, Udon Thani, and Nong Khai provinces
Central - Western Economic Corridor: CWEC: Phra Nakhon Si Ayutthaya, Nakhon Pathom, Suphan Buri, and Kanchanaburi provinces
Southern Economic Corridor: SEC: Chumphon, Ranong, Surat Thani, and Nakhon Si Thammarat provinces

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/59676