รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on Oct 5, 2022


วันอังคารที่ 11 ตุลาคม 2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on Oct 5, 2022
The cabinet met on Oct 5, 2022. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Revocation of Ministerial Regulation of Prime Minister’s Office on Promotion of National Reconciliation, B.E. 2550, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Revocation of Ministerial Regulation of Prime Minister’s Office on Promotion of National Reconciliation, B.E. 2550, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Justice.
Gist
The Ministerial Regulation of Prime Minister’s Office on Promotion of National Reconciliation, B.E. 2550 prescribes establishment of National Reconciliation Promotion Committee to address and mitigate conflicts in the country. However, at present, reconciliation promotion and conflict mitigation mechanisms have tanglibly been set up, e.g., Strategic Transformation Office, Office of Peace and Governance under King Prajadhipoks Institute, Parliament’s reconciliation committee, and mechanisms under the Dispute Mediation Act, B.E. 2562 (2019), etc.
In light of the above, Ministerial Regulation of Prime Minister’s Office on Promotion of National Reconciliation, B.E. 2550, B.E. … was approved to avoid redundancy in national administration. The revocation will take effect the day after it being published in the Royal Gazette.
Title: Report on the Industrial Economics Status in Q2/2022 and July 2022
The cabinet acknowledged Industrial Economics Status in Q2/2022 and July 2022, as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
Based on the report, manufacturing production index (MPI) in Q2/2022 contracted by 0.7% QoQ partly due to the Russia-Ukraine conflict which has resulted in the hike of fuel and commodity prices in the global market.
Key industries that contributed to the contraction were Hard Disk Drive, plastic beads, and iron and steel. Key industries that have expanded well in in Q2/2022 were petroleum refinery, and non-tire rubber
Manufacturing production index (MPI) in July 2022 expanded by 6.4% YoY. Key industries that contributed to the expansion were automotive, petroleum refinery, concrete products, electronic parts, and air conditioner and parts.
Title: Request for budget from Government’s contingency fund for emergency for implementation of “Ministry of Commerce… On Sale! On Tour Across Thailand”
The cabinet approved 422,75 million in budget Baht from the Government’s contingency fund for emergency for the implementation of the event “Ministry of Commerce… On Sale! On Tour Across Thailand” which will be held until December 2022. This is as proposed by Ministry of Commerce.
Title: Draft MOU on Cooperation under Mekong- Lancang (MLC) Special Fund between Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment and Embassy of People’s Republic of China in Thailand
The cabinet approved the draft MOU on Cooperation under Mekong- Lancang (MLC) Special Fund between Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment and Embassy of People’s Republic of China in Thailand, and authorized Permanent Secretary to Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment or a representative as signatory of the MOU. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
Gist
Two projects to be funded under Mekong- Lancang (MLC) Special Fund are: 1) Comprehensive Study and Demonstration of Forest Fire Regimes, Impacts, and Management in LMC Countries: Towards Enhancing Forest Landscape Resilience to Climate and Ecosystem Changes  (USD129,300), and 2) Piloting Community Forest Enterprises for Increased Economic Benefit and Sustainable Forest Management (USD333,200).

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/60311