รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​​Govt Spokesperson: 28th APEC SME Ministerial Meeting is a success


วันอังคารที่ 13 กันยายน 2565
​​Govt Spokesperson: 28th APEC SME Ministerial Meeting is a success
​​Govt Spokesperson: 28th APEC SME Ministerial Meeting is a success
September 13, 2022, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed about Thailand’s success in hosting the 28th APEC SME Ministerial Meeting on September 9-10, 2022 in Phuket. The meeting was chaired by Deputy Prime Minister and Energy Minister Supattanapong Punmeechaow.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the meeting was held under the theme: “Inclusive Recovery of APEC MSMEs through the Bio – Circular – Green Economy (BCG) Model and High Impact Ecosystem”, and was participated by ministerial representatives from 21 APEC economies. Participants have come to terms to promote inclusive and high-impact recovery in four priority areas:
1. Accelerating BCG Adoption: Promoting the BCG model can support value creation for MSMEs’ products and services and create business opportunities for MSMEs while reinforcing ongoing global efforts to address climate change
2. Inclusive Digital Transformation: Recognizing the critical role of digital transformation, innovation, and technology in businesses. Digitalization can accelerate the comprehensive development of MSMEs and build resiliency to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic
3. Financing and Debt Restructuring for MSMEs: Promoting MSME’s access to financial sources
4. Coping with an Evolving Market Landscape: Promoting efforts to strengthen the competitiveness of MSMEs by improving the business environment for startups, fostering innovation, promoting participation in regional and global value chains (GVCs) and collaboration with large enterprises
MSME, accounting for over 98% of businesses in the region, is a key to regional economic growth and prosperity, as MSME alone can create economic value of 40-60% of the APEC GDP. The Thai Government has placed great importance on MSME capacity building and competitiveness enhancement to create economic opportunities and linkage with the global supply chain, and to promote inclusive and sustainable recovery.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/59176