รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with President of Lao PDR National Assembly


วันอังคารที่ 1 พฤศจิกายน 2565
พิมพ์
PM meets with President of Lao PDR National Assembly
PM meets with President of Lao PDR National Assembly
October 31, 2022, at 1600hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai KHu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Dr. Xaysompone Phomvihane, President of National Assembly of the Lao PDR, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his official visit to Thailand as guest of the Thai National Assembly. Deputy Government Sokesperson Ratchada Thanadirek disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure to meet with President of Lao PDR National Assembly, and thanked him for attending the 30th Annual meeting of the Asia Pacific Parliamentary Forum ( APPF 30 ), held at the National Assembly of Thailand, Bangkok, during October 26- 29, 2022. Thailand and Lao PDR have forged close relations and cooperation in all dimensions, and leaders of the two countries often meet. Last week, the Prime Minister met with the Prime Minister of Lao PDR to cochair the groundbreaking ceremony of the 5th Thai–Lao Friendship Bridge (Bueng Kan – Bolikhamxai), which would further promote people-to-people relations.
President of Lao PDR National Assembly expressed pleasure to meet with the Prime Minister, and to strengthen and follow up on pending cooperation with the Thai National Assembly through APPF30. Relations between National Assembly of the two countries are good, with the regular exchange of visits and joint activities between two sides to promote political, security, economic transport connectivity, and labor cooperation.
Both parties came to terms on continued promotion of bilateral cooperation between National Assembly of the two countries, as an important mechanism for the reinforcement of Thailand - Lao PDR relations. President of Lao PDR National Assembly called on concerned agencies of Thailand and Lao PDR to work together on border security, especially in addressing narcotics and human trafficking. The Prime Minister affirmed Thailand’s readiness to support Lao PDR on training and capacity building, as well as provision of advanced investigative equipment. The two sides also agreed on joining forces to prevent and suppress call center gang and hybrid scam, and take care of illegal labor victims.
With regard to connectivity promotion, the Prime Minister endorsed Lao PDR’s “Transforming Lao PDR from a Land-locked to a Land-linked Economy” policy, and congratulated the success of the Lao-China Railway, which has greatly facilitated regional transport. Thailand has placed importance on physical and regulative rail connectivity, while President of Lao PDR National Assembly expressed support on the linkage between the Lao-China Railway and Thailand’s rail system for the best interest of people of the two countries.
On labor cooperation, President of Lao PDR National Assembly called on the Thai side to protect and take care of Lao migrant labor, while the Prime Minister emphasized the importance of migrant workers for Thai economic development, and committed to provide equal protection, benefits, and welfare to migrant workers in Thailand, including those from Lao PDR.
Both parties also congratulated academic cooperation under the 3-Year Thai – Lao Development Cooperation Plan (2022-2024). On economic cooperation, President of Lao PDR National Assembly was pleased with close trade and investment cooperation, and expressed hope that both countries would work together to minimize trade obstacle. He also extended his invitation for Thai investors to increase investment in Lao PDR, especially in energy.
At the end of the meeting, the Prime Minister hoped for continuous cooperation between Lao PDR National Assembly and the Thai counterpart.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/61109