รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand ready to host APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting and related meetings on Nov 18-19, 2022


วันจันทร์ที่ 26 กันยายน 2565
พิมพ์
Thailand ready to host APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting and related meetings on Nov 18-19, 2022
Thailand ready to host APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting and related meetings on Nov 18-19, 2022
September 26, 2022, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri affirmed Thailand’s readiness to host the annual APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting and related meetings during November 18-19, 2022. Queen Sirikit National Convention Center (QSNCC) will be used as the main venue of the meetings, while the gala dinner in honor of APEC economic leaders and spouses will be held at the Royal Thai Navy Convention Hall.
All concerned agencies have been working hard to prepare for Thailand’s hosting of the annual APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting and related meetings. The Metropolitan Police Headquarters, responsible for safety and security, has conducted an emergency and crisis response drill for the 2022 APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting and related meetings during September 16-20, 2022.
The gala dinner for APEC economic leaders and spouses has also been planned in line with the Bio-Circular-Green Economy Model (BCG) economic model, which is the key concept of Thailand’s hosting of the APEC 2022. The menu has been designed by Chef Chumpol Jangprai, 1 of the 9 APEC presenters. Food and drink have been carefully selected to showcase creativity and authenticity of the Thai cuisine, using high quality ingredients from community enterprises across the country. Gala dinner tables will be decorated with handicrafts and products from the Support Foundation Of Her Majesty Queen Sirikit the Queen Mother.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Government and other concerned sectors and agencies have been working in an integrative manner to ensure the country’s preparedness for the hosting of 2022 APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting and related meetings in November. This will be a good opportunity to present Thailand’s uniqueness and identities at the global stage, and the Government would like to call on Thai people to be the good host, and welcome APEC economic leaders and spouses with friendship and hospitality.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/59668