รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM: 5th Thai–Lao Friendship Bridge will further enhance relations and cooperation between Thailand and Lao PDR


วันศุกร์ที่ 28 ตุลาคม 2565
พิมพ์
PM: 5th Thai–Lao Friendship Bridge will further enhance relations and cooperation between Thailand and Lao PDR
PM: 5th Thai–Lao Friendship Bridge will further enhance relations and cooperation between Thailand and Lao PDR
October 28, 2022, at 1210hrs, Bueng Kan province, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha gave a remark on occasion of the groundbreaking ceremony of the 5th Thai–Lao Friendship Bridge (Bueng Kan – Bolikhamxai). Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of his remark as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed honor to cochair the groundbreaking ceremony with Prime Minister of Lao PDR. The 5thThai–Lao Friendship Bridge (Bueng Kan – Bolikhamxai) construction project is crucial to connectivity promotion between the two countries. Project implementation progress has been expedited, following the bilateral meeting between Prime Ministers of Thailand and Lao PDR during the latter’s official visit to Thailand in June 2022. This reflects close, cordial, and supportive relations between the two neighboring countries.
The groundbreaking ceremony of the 5th Thai–Lao Friendship Bridge (Bueng Kan – Bolikhamxai) not only signifies friendship and mutual pride, but also continuous effort of Thailand and Lao PDR to promote connectivity and tangible cooperation, especially when the two countries have become “Strategic Partners for Growth and Sustainable Development”. The 5th Thai–Lao Friendship Bridge construction project is the Thai Government’s key strategic project to connect with Lao PDR and the region, and is also relevant with Lao PDR’s strategy to develop the country into the region’s connectivity hub.
According to the Prime Minister, the 5th Thai–Lao Friendship Bridge will greatly contribute to people-to-people relations and goods transport between the two countries, and will promote subregional connectivity between Thailand, Lao PDR, and Vietnam on R8 route, which could further link with China. In the context of post-COVID-19 economic recovery, the 5th Thai–Lao Friendship Bridge will accommodate an increasing international trade volume and activities, and enhance competitiveness of Thailand’s upper Northeast and the Central part of Lao PDR, engendering local development and employment creation to bring in more revenue to the locals.
In closing, the Prime Minister thanked all concerned sectors of both the countries for the tangible progress of the 5thThai–Lao Friendship Bridge construction project, and expressed confidence that the project would be complete in time to celebrate the 75th anniversary of diplomatic relations between Thailand and Lao PDR in 2025. He also affirmed the Thai Government’s commitment to continue to strengthen relations and cooperation with the Lao PDR counterpart for socio-economic development and for the better wellbeing of people of the two countries.
After the groundbreaking ceremony, the Prime Ministers of Thailand and Lao PDR had lunch together at The One Hotel, Bueng Kan province.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/60974