รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-OHCHR recognizes Thailand’s enactment of Prevention and Suppression of Torture and Enforced Disappearance Act, B.E. 2565


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 3 พฤศจิกายน 2565
พิมพ์
OHCHR recognizes Thailand’s enactment of Prevention and Suppression of Torture and Enforced Disappearance Act, B.E. 2565
OHCHR recognizes Thailand’s enactment of Prevention and Suppression of Torture and Enforced Disappearance Act, B.E. 2565
November 3, 2022, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha was pleased with the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR)’s recognition on Thailand’s enactment of the Prevention and Suppression of Torture and Enforced Disappearance Act, B.E. 2565 (2022), on October 25, 2022.
According to OHCHR, the promulgation of this law is a critical milestone in combating torture, ill-treatment and enforced disappearances in Thailand. It includes provisions that will hold perpetrators to account under criminal law and incorporates key principles of non-derogation and non-refoulement, prohibiting officials from expelling, deporting and extraditing a person to another country where they may face substantial risks of torture, cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or enforced disappearance.
OHCHR also commended Thailand for fulfilling commitments made during its last Universal Periodic Review (UPR) by the enactment of this law. With this domestic legal framework now in place, Thailand can move ahead with ratifying the International Convention on the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance, as well as the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. The OHCHR Regional Office is available to provide any technical support that the Government may require.
The Government Spokesperson added that the Government strives to eradicate serious violation of human rights, and ensure fairness to the people, as well as to elevate the country’s human rights protection on par with the international standard, to boost public confidence in Thailand’s judicial process and promote the country’s positive image.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/61243