รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Govt continues to implement seamless transport megaprojects to spread prosperity to all regions


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 15 กันยายน 2565
Govt continues to implement seamless transport megaprojects to spread prosperity to all regions
Govt continues to implement seamless transport megaprojects to spread prosperity to all regions
September 15, 2022, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri emphasized the Government’s commitment on national infrastructure development to promote sustainable and seamless transport system, both in Bangkok and vicinity and in other regions.
The development of mass rapid transit system in Bangkok and vicinity (14 lines for the total distance of 554 kilometers) has been expedited in a bid to address traffic problem in a tangible manner. Two monorail lines, the Pink Line (Khae Rai - Min Buri) and the Yellow Line (Lat Phrao-Samrong) are planned for soft opening this year before offering their full service at the end of 2023. Bang Sue Grand Station will also be promoted as Thailand’s and ASEAN’s largest rail transport hub and the pilot project for 5G technology smart station, the first of its kind in Thailand and the Southeast Asian region.
As for the Northeastern high-speed rail development project (Bangkok- Nakhon Ratchasima- Nong Khai), with the total length of over 600 kilometers, the first phase of 253 kilometers (Bangkok- Nakhon Ratchasima) will be opened for service in 2026, while Ministry of Transport plans to submit to the cabinet the proposal for the development of the 2nd phase (Nakhon Ratchasima- Nong Khai- 356 kilometers) around the end of this year. The 2nd phase of the Northeastern high-speed rail system is expected to open for service in 2028.
For the High-Speed Rail Linking Three Airports (Don Mueang–Suvarnabhumi–U-Tapao) Project, with the distance of 220 kilometers and maximum speed of 250 kilometers/hour, 100% of land has now been acquired and handed over for construction. The 2nd phase of Khon Kaen-Nong Khai double track rail project (167 kilometers) will also be proposed to the cabinet within this year for implementation approval and is expected to open for service in 2026. Construction of four other double track rail projects, namely, 1) Map Kabao - Thanon Jira section; 2) Lopburi-Pak Nam Pho section; 3) Nakhon Pathom-Hua Hin; and 4) Prachuab Kirikhan-Chumporn, has also started.
With regard to the development of water transport networks, the 3rd phase of Laem Chabang Port, which will enhance EEC connectivity with the world, is expected to open for service in 2025, while the 3rd phase of Map Ta Phut Seaport and LNG regional hub should be opened in 2026. For air transport development, the 2nd phase of Suvarnabhumi Airport will be opened for service in October this year. Other air transport development projects include U-Tapao Airport capacity enhancement and Aviation Technical Zone (ATZ) development, among others, which will enhance Thailand’s status as regional aviation hub.
According to the Government Spokesperson, these infrastructure development megaprojects not only connect cities and countries, but also facilitate people’s travel, and contribute to the spread of prosperity and the development of economic, trade, investment, and tourism activities, elevating Thailand as the region’s production and service hub.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/59316