รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand affirms full support to new Australian Ambassador 


วันอังคารที่ 6 กันยายน 2565
พิมพ์
Thailand affirms full support to new Australian Ambassador
Thailand affirms full support to new Australian Ambassador
September 5, 2022, at 0900hrs, at the Command Building I, Government House, Ms. Angela Jane Macdonald, Ambassador of the Commonwealth of Australia, paid a courtesy call on Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri on occasion of her assumption of the position. Gist of the meeting is as follows:
The Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister expressed honor to welcome the Ambassador today, while the latter congratulated his appointment as the Government Spokesperson. Both sides mentioned success and outcomes of various meetings between public agencies of the two countries, and expressed confidence that these meetings would contribute to further development in other areas of cooperation.
The Australian Ambassador inquired about the current Government situation, on which the Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister affirmed that Minister of Defense Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha respects the court’s ruling, and has stopped performing his duty as the Prime Minister since August 24, 2022. Meanwhile, his legal team has submitted clarification documents to the Constitutional Court. The Government Spokesperson could not tell the deliberation period as it is the Court’s authority and decision.
With regards to bilateral relations between Thailand and Australia, the Ambassador emphasized the new Australian Government’s priority over Southeast Asia as its strategic region. Australia also places importance on the environmental issues, such as GHG emission, and circular economy, which is in line with Thailand’s BCG economic model and Thailand’s hosting of APEC 2022 under the theme “Open. Connect. Balance”. Both parties also discussed other issues of mutual interest, i.e., energy, and education. The Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister affirmed Thailand’s readiness to provide full support to the Ambassador for the interest of both Thailand and Australia, and the people of the two countries.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/58888