รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Public warned of heavy rain during Sep 17-21


วันศุกร์ที่ 16 กันยายน 2565
พิมพ์
Public warned of heavy rain during Sep 17-21
Public warned of heavy rain during Sep 17-21
September 16, 2022, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed about Meteorological Department’s weather forecast for heavy rain in Thailand during September 17-21, 2022, especially in the North, Northeast, Central, East, South, and Bangkok and vicinity. The public is warned of possible flash flood and overflows which may affect their safety and wellbeing. Fisherfolks are also advised to take precaution as gusty wind is also very likely over the Andaman Sea and the Gulf of Thailand.
Flood-prone areas that need to take precaution are areas close to the rivers and tributaries, especially, Kwai Noi, Pa Sak, Chao Phraya, Chi, Mun, Nakhon Nayok, Prachin Buri, Bang Pakong, Rayong, Chanthaburi, and Trat Rivers. Thirteen large dams and reservoirs, of which water level is now higher than the upper rule curve, are also closely monitored, i.e., Chiang Mai’s Mae Ngat Somboon Chon, Lampang’s Kew Kho Ma, Kew Lom, and Mae Mok, Uthai Thani’s Thap Salao, Suphan Buri’s Krasiew, Khon Kaen’s Ubonrat, Nakhon Ratchasima’s Lam Ta Khong, Lam Phra Pleng, and Mun Bon, Chachoengsao’s Khlong Siyad, Chonburi’s Bang Phra, and Rayong’s Nong Pla Lai, as well as medium and small-scale reservoirs throughout the country with water volume of over 80% and increasing.
The Government has instructed concerned agencies to prepare for water situation in all aspects. Other than close monitoring of flood-prone areas, possible water obstructions must be cleared, and hydraulic structures and drainage system, as well as river banks, must be checked to ensure that they remain intact. Lowlands for flood retention should be managed and prepared, while personnel and equipment, including backup communication system, must be mobilized for prompt deployment. Raising public awareness and public relations is also an important measure to prevent grave damages.
The Government has assigned Office of National Water Resources (ONWR) to develop and implement water management plan, including 13 measures for the rainy season in 2022. ONWR has also reviewed and adjusted water management criteria, prepared machineries and equipment for 5,382 water management centers throughout the country, and repaired and improved 649 water banks (for the total length of 6,440km) for flood prevention in risky areas.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/59344