รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Deputy PM Prawit Wongsuwon delivers statement at TES 2022


วันอังคารที่ 20 กันยายน 2565
พิมพ์
Deputy PM Prawit Wongsuwon delivers statement at TES 2022
Deputy PM Prawit Wongsuwon delivers statement at TES 2022
September 20, 2022, at 0440hrs (September 19, 2022 at 1740hrs in New York), at the United Nations Headquarters, New York, USA, Deputy Prime Minister Gen. Prawit Wongsuwon delivered a statement via a teleconference at the Leaders’ Round Tables session of Transforming Education Summit 2022 (TES 2022), held as part of the 77th Session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA77). TES Leaders’ Round Tables session provided an opportunity for national leaders to share vision on educational crisis and transformation for peace, justice, and human rights.
The Deputy Prime Minister thanked UN Secretary-General for organizing the Transforming Education Summit 2022 (TES 2022), which he believed was a good opportunity for national leaders to exchange view and experiences on educational transformation in order to achieve SDG4. Thailand has always placed importance on education as the key to manpower and national development. Focus has been made on the development of learners, teachers, and education system through technology and innovation capitalization. Thailand commits to guarantee safe return to learning for all through the implementation of proper measures to maintain education standard and quality.
Realizing the importance of knowledge and skill enhancement for future employment, the Thai Government has collaborated with the private sector to revise and update curriculum to be in line with employers’ demand. Cooperation with overseas education institutions has also been promoted in response to the need of foreign investors. The Government also strives to build capacity of domestic education institutions and alleviate learners’ burden through increasing educational subsidies, promoting adequate, equal, just, and transparent educational investment, and enhancing teachers’ innovative teaching skills. Learner-centered approach and inclusive and free-of-charge online education via easily-accessible platforms have also been promoted to prepare learners for the digital age.
In conclusion, the Deputy Prime Minister emphasized Thailand’s commitment to work together with UN and other member states to uplift education quality through education transformation.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/59446