รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM thanks concerned sectors for making Chiang Mai “2022 World Festival and Event City”


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 6 ตุลาคม 2565
พิมพ์
PM thanks concerned sectors for making Chiang Mai “2022 World Festival and Event City”
PM thanks concerned sectors for making Chiang Mai “2022 World Festival and Event City”
September 4, 2022, Deputy Government Spokesperson Ratchada Thanadirek disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha was pleased with Chiang Mai being selected as “World Festival and Event City” for the year 2022 by International Festivals & Events Association (IFEA). The province has been nominated by Thailand Convention and Exhibition Bureau (TCEB) and “Visit Lanna” Group. He also thanked all concerned sectors for making this happen.
According to the Deputy Government Spokesperson, the Government has a policy to support integrative effort and collaboration between concerned ministries, TCEB, and the private and people sectors to promote Thailand’s soft power, e.g., world renowned festivals, food, culture, beautiful nature, and wellness. IFEA has chosen Chiang Mai as one of the five World Festival and Event Cities for 2022 for its notable festivals, and close collaborations between local stakeholders, which deserves to be a role model in utilizing festivals and events for economic development. The city was also praised for effective COVID-19 situation administration. Other than Chiang Mai, the other 4 cities selected as World Festival and Event Cities for 2022 are Jinju-South Korea, McAllen- USA, Penghu County- Taiwan, and Philadelphia- USA.
To connect with Lanna culture, the Government has set up the “Northern Economic Corridor (NEC) - Creative LANNA”, covering Chiang Mai, Chiang Rai, Lamphun, and Lampang, to promote sustainable and creative economic bases. The NEC- Creative Lanna will take forward Lanna culture and local wisdoms to add value to local products, services, and tourism activities in accordance with the concept of creative economy. The Northern provinces will also be able to connect with the neighboring countries, especially Lao PDR, and southern China through a number of transport infrastructure network, be it, double-track train, high-speed train, and Mekong waterway toward China’s Yunnan, which further enhances trade and investment, and tourism opportunity.
The Deputy Government Spokesperson added that the Prime Minister handed down a policy on promoting collaboration between all concerned sectors and local entities in driving forward national development in all dimensions. The award “World Festival and Event City” is a good example of Chiang Mai’s strong collaboration between the public, private, and people sectors. In the next phase, the Government has planned to expand economic corridors in other regions throughout the country in a bid to build upon local identities, and promote soft power among the international communities for sustainable increase of revenues, and promotion of the country’s good image.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/60113