รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand-Australia commit to strengthen cooperation in suppressing trafficking in person and transnational crime


วันอังคารที่ 4 ตุลาคม 2565
พิมพ์
Thailand-Australia commit to strengthen cooperation in suppressing trafficking in person and transnational crime
Thailand-Australia commit to strengthen cooperation in suppressing trafficking in person and transnational crime
October 3, 2022, at 1430hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Ms. Angela Jane Macdonald, Ambassador of the Commonwealth of Australia, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of her assumption of the position. Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed Australian Ambassador on behalf of the Thai Government and as the Thai Prime Minister, and expressed pleasure on the close and tight-knitted relations and cooperation between the two countries, both at the bilateral, ASEAN, Mekong subregional, and multilateral levels. He also commended the Australia Embassy’s celebration of the 70th anniversary of the diplomatic relations between Thailand and Australia, and hoped that the two countries further strengthen cooperation in an inclusive manner.
The Australian Ambassador expressed honor to be tenured in Thailand, and to receive the warm welcome from the Thai Government. She was also pleased with close relations and cooperation between Thailand and Australia, especially in trade and investment, security, and education. The Ambassador affirmed Australia’s support on Thailand’s hosting of the APEC 2022, and commended the country’s preparation for the annual APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting and related meetings, which is orderly and comprehensively. Australia will continue to work together with Thailand to move forward APEC.
Both parties emphasized the intent to work closely as strategic partners under the Joint Action Plan on Strategic Partnership (2022-2025), especially in the aspects of security, anti-human trafficking, cyber security, public health, education, and people-to-people relations. Australia also commits to cooperate with Thailand under the Mekong subregional, ASEAN, and Indo-Pacific frameworks.
Thailand places high importance on the issue of anti-human trafficking, which has been included as one of the national agendas, and strives to work closely with Australia to suppress trafficking in person and transnational crime. The country is also keen to reinforce cooperation with Australia on cyber security and capacity building in anti-human trafficking. The Ambassador affirmed her country’s commitment to work together with Thailand on the matters toward tangible success, through Australia’s Counter Trafficking in Persons Center of Excellence.
On trade, investment, and tourism, the Australian Ambassador was certain that trade and investment, as well as tourism activities, would be revived, following the relaxation of COVID-19 measures of the two countries. Both parties came to terms on increasing investment cooperation in the fields of mutual needs. Australian private sector is interested in investing in clean energy, while the Prime Minister extended his invitation for them to expand investment in the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC), which offers full infrastructure and various investment privileges, e.g., smart visa, and tax privileges.
With regard to multilateral cooperation, both parties were pleased with the elevation of Australia’s status as ASEAN’s comprehensive strategic partner last year. The Australian Ambassador also expressed pleasure to take part in the promotion of Mekong subregional development, both in the areas of water management, anti-transnational crime, and anti-human trafficking, and hoped for the strengthening of ASEAN-Australia cooperation toward tangible success.
Toward the end of the meeting, the Prime Minister affirmed Thailand’s readiness to support the Ambassador’s mission, and wished for her success and orderliness throughout the Ambassador’s tenure in Thailand.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/60005