รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Cabinet approves additional targeted industries eligible for Smart Visa application


วันพุธที่ 28 กันยายน 2565
พิมพ์
Cabinet approves additional targeted industries eligible for Smart Visa application
Cabinet approves additional targeted industries eligible for Smart Visa application
September 27, 2022, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that the cabinet, in its meeting today, approved in principle the draft Announcement of Ministry of Interior on special permission for some classes of aliens to stay in the kingdom for highly skilled manpower, investors, executives and startups entrepreneurs (No. …), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Interior.
The draft Announcement of Ministry of Interior on special permission for some classes of aliens to stay in the kingdom for highly skilled manpower, investors, executives and startups entrepreneurs (No. …), B.E. …, prescribes expansion of targeted industries eligible for the application of smart visa from 13 to 18 S-Curve industries. Additional 5 industries are: National Defense Industry, Industries that facilitate the Circular Economy directly and significantly (e.g., fuel production from waste, water resources management, etc.), Aviation and Aerospace Industry, Technology  Innovation and Startup Ecosystem Management, Targeted Technology Development, and International Business Center (IBC).
Privileges for those who are granted smart visa include extension of 90-day reporting to the Immigration at the One Stop Service Center to 1 year, no requirement of re-entry permit, permission for spouse and children to stay/work in Thailand for the same duration as the smart visa holder, among others.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the draft Announcement of Ministry of Interior on special permission for some classes of aliens to stay in the kingdom for highly skilled manpower, investors, executives and startups entrepreneurs (No. …), B.E. … will attract talents and technologies with a view to further developing the country’s targeted industries or the so-called S-Curve industries, and respond to “Thailand 4.0” policy.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/59758