รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Govt to accelerate infrastructure development in all aspects


วันอังคารที่ 18 ตุลาคม 2565
พิมพ์
​Govt to accelerate infrastructure development in all aspects
​Govt to accelerate infrastructure development in all aspects
October 18, 2022, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha has placed importance on infrastructure development in all aspects. The Government, through Ministry of Transport (Aeronautical Radio of Thailand), has recently signed a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) with PTT Public Company Limited and AI and Robotics Ventures, Co., Ltd. on Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS) Flight Operations and Fleet Management Pilot Project, for the development and data linkage of UAS Flight Operations and Fleet Management application with Unmanned Aircraft System Traffic Management (UTM). This pilot project will be implemented in Rayong’s Wangchan Valley, and will later be expanded to other areas, both domestically and internationally. The implementation of Pilot Project for Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS) Flight Operations and Fleet Management will contribute to the development of S-Curve industries and national economic growth in a sustainable manner.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Government also expedites digital infrastructure development. The goal is to make Thailand a smart country. Representatives of Ministry of Digital Economy and Society have attended ASEAN Digital Senior Officials' Meeting (ADGSOM) and ASEAN Telecommunication Regulators Council (ATRC), which are held annually, to discuss and push forward key outcomes of related ASEAN meetings, and follow up on the implementations under the ASEAN Digital Master Plan 2025. 2022 ADGSOM and ATRC have placed great importance on accelerating the development of secure, equitable, inclusive and sustainable digital economy, preparing ASEAN for inclusive digital transformation, and planing for digital cooperation between ASEAN and Dialogue Partners in 2023, among others.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/60582