รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on March 28, 2023. 


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 30 มีนาคม 2566
30/03/2566
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on March 28, 2023.
The cabinet met on March 28, 2023.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for hot-rolled flat steel for
machine structure, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for
hot-rolled flat steel for machine structure, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for hot-rolled flat steel for machine
structure, B.E. …, prescribes Thai Industrial Standard for hot-rolled flat steel for machine structure
under TIS 1501-2564, to be in accordance with the Ministerial Announcement No. 6697 (B.E. 2565),
issued under the Industrial Product Standards Act, B.E. 2511, on Withdrawal and Prescription of
Thai Industrial Standard for hot-rolled flat steel for machine structure.
The draft Ministerial Regulation shall take effect 180 days after being announced in the Royal
Gazette.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for hot - rolled high strength
steel coil strip plate and sheet with improved formability for automobile structural uses, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for
Hot - rolled high strength steel coil strip plate and sheet with improved formability for automobile
structural uses, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for hot - rolled high strength steel coil
strip plate and sheet with improved formability for automobile structural uses, B.E. …, prescribes
Thai Industrial Standard for Hot - rolled high strength steel coil strip plate and sheet with
improved formability for automobile structural uses under TIS 1884-2564, to be in accordance with
the Ministerial Announcement No. 6698 (B.E. 2565), issued under the Industrial Product Standards
Act, B.E. 2511, on Withdrawal and Prescription of Thai Industrial Standard for hot - rolled high
strength steel coil strip plate and sheet with improved formability for automobile structural uses.
The draft Ministerial Regulation shall take effect 180 days after being announced in the Royal
Gazette.
Title: Request for leave (without considering as leave days) of 97 public servants,
government officials, and regular and temporary staffs of public agencies/state enterprises
to ordain as monks on auspicious occasion of 8 th cycle anniversary of Somdej Phra
Ariyavongsagatanana Supreme Patriarch Sakon Maha Patangkha Parinayok on June 26, 2023
The cabinet approved the request for leave (without considering as leave days) of 97 public
servants, government officials, and regular and temporary staffs of public agencies/state
enterprises to ordain as monks on auspicious occasion of 8th cycle anniversary of Somdej Phra
Ariyavongsagatanana Supreme Patriarch Sakon Maha Patangkha Parinayok on June 26, 2023.
Ordination period is June 15- July 1, 2023 (17 days). This is as proposed by Office of Permanent
Secretary to Prime Minister’s Office.
Title: “Ease of Traveling” Roadmap
The cabinet acknowledged the progress of “Ease of Traveling” roadmap, implemented by Ministry
of Tourism and Sports in accordance with the cabinet’s resolution on August 3, 2021 which
assigned government agencies to introduce public e-services in 12 lines of service.
Gist
Ministry of Tourism and Sports’ “2022-2024 Ease of Traveling” roadmap was developed from the
existing web portal “Entry Thailand”, which provided information related to traveling to Thailand
during the COVID-19 pandemic, and was later upgraded to a central platform providing post-
COVID-19 one-stop services and information on prior to the arrival, arrival/during the stay, and
before leave.
“Entry Thailand” website links with other systems/applications of concerned agencies to better
facilitate foreign tourists, i.e., Ministry of Digital Economy and Society’s “Thailand Pass”, the
Revenue Office’s tax refund system, Customs Office’s online visa application system, Tourism
Police’s “Tourist Police I Lert U” application, Airports of Thailand PCL’s flight schedule system,
Department of Disease Control’s system on COVID-19 vaccination, and Office of Insurance
Commission’s insurance scheme for COVID-19 prevention and protection.
In 2023, Ministry of Tourism and Sports is set to expand the website’s scope of services through
linkages with more agencies, such as Ministry of Culture (in relation to Thailand’s festivals and
celebrations), Fine Arts Department (for information related to museums and historical parks),
Department of Disaster Mitigation and Prevention (for information related to daily disaster warning),
the Thai Meteorological Department (in relation to Thailand’s weather forecast), and Department
of National Parks, Wildlife and Plant Conservation (for information related to reservation of
national park accommodations).
Ministry of Tourism and Sports has also a plan to upgrade and promote the Ease of Traveling
services among the wider public, as well as conduct data analysis on tourist satisfaction, behavior,
and demand to be able to enhance efficiency, and plan for the future tourism roadmaps.
Title: Overview of Economic and Trade Indices for February 2023
The cabinet acknowledged the Overview of Economic and Trade Indices for February 2023, as
proposed by Ministry of Commerce.
Gist
According to the report,
Consumer Price Index (CPI) in February 2023: 108.05 (-0.12%MoM)
Headline inflation rate: +3.79%YoY
Core inflation rate: +1.93YoY
CPI: -0.12%MoM
Consumer Confidence Index (CCI): 52.5
Headline inflation rate for 2023 is estimated at 2.0-3.0%

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/66803