รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM pleased with Spain’s support on Thai-EU FTA negotiation


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 30 มีนาคม 2566
30/03/2566
พิมพ์
PM pleased with Spain’s support on Thai-EU FTA negotiation
PM pleased with Spain’s support on Thai-EU FTA negotiation
March 29, 2023, at 1100hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House,
H.E. Mr. Felipe de la Morena Casado, Ambassador of the Kingdom of Spain to Thailand, paid a
courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his
assumption of duty. Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government
Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed the Spanish Ambassador on behalf of the Thai government and
people. He commended close relations between Thailand and Spain, especially the political
consultations which dynamizes bilateral cooperation in economic, trade and investment,
education, ocean governance, and aquatic animal conservation. The Prime Minister affirmed
Thailand’s support over the Ambassador’s tenure in Thailand, and wished Spain all the success
in its Presidency of the Council of the European Union during the second half of 2023.
The Spanish Ambassador expressed pleasure to be tenured in Thailand. As the two countries
will celebrate the 153 rd anniversary of diplomatic relations this year, he committed to further
strengthen relations and cooperation with Thailand in all aspects. The Ambassador also
commended the Thai Government’s promotion of green transition through BCG Economic
Model, which is in line with Spain’s policy on eco-friendly and sustainable economic
development.
Both parties also discussed other issues of mutual interest:
The Prime Minister and Spanish Ambassador came to terms to reinforce security cooperation.
The Ambassador expressed Spain’s readiness to promote exchange of experiences and military
personnel training.
On economic cooperation, the Spanish Ambassador was pleased with an increase of mutual
trade value. Thailand and Spain have potential for more trade and investment opportunities,
and Spain commits to encourage its investors to increase investment in Thailand. The Prime
Minister called on the two sides to make the most use of RCEP, and to promote economic
cooperation towards green and digital transition through the BCG Economic Model. He also
extended the invitation for Spanish investors to invest in Thailand in the fields of their expertise,
i.e., energy, medicine, rail transport, an S-curve industries in the Eastern Economy Corridor
(EEC), as well as the BCG industries.
With regards to education cooperation, the Prime Minister was pleased with the ongoing
negotiation for the MOU on education and transport cooperation, and hoped that the two
countries seek further cooperation in other areas of mutual interest, such as, exchange of
expertise, personnel skill enhancement, and tourism. The Ambassador expressed readiness to
work together with Thailand in the development of Spanish language teaching and learning,
and in promoting education cooperation at the college level.
The Spanish Ambassador committed to promote tourism and people-to people relations
between the two countries, which would help enhance economic development of both Thailand
and Spain. Both parties also commended Thailand’s cooperation with Casa Asia, an organization
under the umbrella of Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the European Union with the Cooperation of
Kingdom of Spain, as a result of which Thailand-Spain Forum will be held for the first time in
June 2023 in Bangkok.
The Prime Minister also hoped for Spain’s support on the negotiation of Thailand-EU FTA, on
which the Ambassador affirmed Spain’s support in a bid to advance economic relations between
Thailand and EU, and Thailand and Spain.
The Prime Minister was also pleased with Spain’s engagement under the ASEAN framework.
Thailand Plus One policy would be able to link Spain with other ASEAN countries. The
Ambassador affirmed Spain’s priority placed on the ASEAN and the Asia-Pacific region for
mutual benefits.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/66771