รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Govt expects to generate 31.33 billion Baht in trade and investment value with UAE


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 23 มีนาคม 2566
23/03/2566
พิมพ์
Govt expects to generate 31.33 billion Baht in trade and investment value with UAE
Govt expects to generate 31.33 billion Baht in trade and
investment value with UAE
Mar 21, 2023, Deputy Government Spokesperson Ratchada Thanadirek disclosed that the
cabinet acknowledged outcome of the visit to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) by Deputy Prime
Minister and Minister of Commerce Jurin Laksanawisit and the delegation.
The Deputy Prime Minister met with UAE Minister of State for Foreign Trade to discuss the
following matters:
1) Thailand and UAE came to terms to finalize Comprehensive Economic Partnership
Agreement (CEPA) within 6 months. At present, UAE has made Comprehensive
Economic Partnership Agreement with 3 countries, namely India, Israel, and Indonesia,
and, other than Thailand, has been in the process of CEPA negotiation with Turkey,
Cambodia, and South Korea.
2) Thailand and UAE agreed to promote mutual trade and investment through the
establishment of Thai-UAE Business Council. UAE is interested in investing in Thailand in
the fields of infrastructure industry, digital, and food security.
3) UAE was called on to endorse Thailand&#39;s bid to host the Specialised Expo “Expo 2028
Phuket Thailand”, on which the decision will be made by Bureau International des
Expositions in June 2023.
The Deputy Prime Minister also witnessed the signing of agreements and MOU between the
Thai and UAE private sectors: 1) Purchase agreements between 5 Thai companies and
respective UAE counterparts in 4 products, namely, food, sanitary ware and ceramic tiles,
automotive parts, and melamine products, worth total 1.33 billion Baht; 2) Signing on an
establishment of Thai-UAE Business Council, through which the revenue of 30 billion Baht is
expected to be generated; and 3) MOU on logistics cooperation between DP World, UAE’s
logistics company, and the Thai counterpart under the program “World Logistics Passport”.
The Deputy Prime Minister’s visit to UAE is expected to generate total mutual trade value of
31.33 billion Baht. Ministry of Commerce also plans to complete a feasibility study on CEPA by
the 4 th quarter of 2023. CEPA between Thailand and UAE has earlier been approved by the
cabinet on February 28, 2023.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/66481