รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM’s keynote address at “Trade Winds Business Development Forum”


วันจันทร์ที่ 13 มีนาคม 2566
13/03/2566
พิมพ์
PM’s keynote address at “Trade Winds Business Development Forum”
PM’s keynote address at “Trade Winds Business Development Forum”
March 13, 2023, at 1630hrs, at the Avani+ Riverside Bangkok Hotel, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha delivered a keynote address at the “Trade Winds Business Development Forum” which is organized with an aim to promote economic and trade partnership between Thailand and the U.S., boost confidence on investment and business operation in the country, and offer an opportunity for the two countries to explore cooperation in areas of mutual interest. Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the Prime Minister’s keynote address as follows:
The Prime Minister was pleased with the organization of Trade Winds Business Development Forum in Thailand for the whole ASEAN region which reflects an increase of trade and investment potential of the country and the region. The Thai Government stands ready to work together with the Governments of ASEAN member countries to provide U.S. private sector with information and insight into potential opportunities and partnerships across a variety of markets.
Trade Winds will strengthen trade and investment, and economic partnership. The event also coincides with the 190th anniversary of diplomatic relations between Thailand and the U.S. which has started since the signing of the Treaty of Amity and Commerce in 1833. Despite the COVID-19 situation, bilateral relations between the two countries have grown considerably, especially during the past 2 years, with continuous increase of bilateral trade activities. In 2022, mutual trade value accounts for over US$65 billion. This moved the U.S. back to being Thailand’s no. 2 trade partner for the first time in 15 years. Both countries have also forged strong cooperation and supply chain through Thailand’s connectivity and logistics infrastructure.
The two countries also share similar goal and policy to promote sustainable, strong and balanced economic growth. Thailand has placed great importance on the BCG Economic Model, in relation to which the Bangkok Goals on Bio-Circular-Green (BCG) Economy was adopted by the APEC leaders. Thailand and the U.S. have also worked together with other member countries of the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework for Prosperity (IPEF) to promote resilience, sustainability, inclusiveness, economic growth, fairness, and competitiveness. According to the Prime Minister, Thailand-U.S. Strategic Alliance and Partnership will pave way for opportunities and cooperation in the following dimensions:
First is strengthening cooperation for future economy and industry. Thailand stands ready to be the region’s major production, trade and investment hub, and to bridge regional supply chain with its geographical location and investment privileges provided to the private sector. Thailand welcomes investment from the U.S. in such new areas as smart electronics, semiconductor parts, health/medical products and services, bioindustry, next-generation automotive, and BCG-related industries and products.
Second is that Thailand has placed great importance on the development of green technology and clean energy. U.S. companies are invited to make investment, and share knowledge, technology, and expertise in the fields of EVs, solar energy, hydrogen energy, GHG reduction technology, and CCUS technology, for Thailand’s full transition into the green economy and low-carbon society.
Last is the digital transition. Thailand strives to advance digital infrastructure development, and implementation of digital upskilling and reskilling to accommodate future industries. The Thai Government has developed Government Cloud Services with the cooperation of the U.S. private sector. Cooperation has also been expanded to promote innovation ecosystem development, and digital and hi-tech capacity building, such as quantum and AI.
Trade Winds is expected to elevate trade and investment cooperation between the two countries to another level. The Thai Government commits to provide support for business operation of the U.S. private sector for the common goal in achieving balanced, strong, and sustainable economic growth.
Trade Winds Business Development Forum is the largest U.S. government-led trade mission and business development forum. Organized by the U.S. Commercial Service, Trade Winds will feature meetings between Thai and U.S. commercial representatives and private sector, conference programming, business matchmaking, and plenty of networking. Approx. 150 participants are expected to attend the Trade Winds.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/66090