รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM’s overseas mission during May 15-24, 2024


วันศุกร์ที่ 10 พฤษภาคม 2567
10/05/2567
พิมพ์
PM’s overseas mission during May 15-24, 2024
PM’s overseas mission during May 15-24, 2024
May 10, 2024, Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed that Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin is scheduled to lead a group of Thai business executives to attend the Thailand - France Business Forum & Roundtable in the Republic of France during May 15-16, 2024. He will also pay an official visit to the Republic of Italy and attend parallel activities on May 17-21, 2024. The Prime Minister will later attend the 29th Nikkei Forum Future of Asia on May 22-24, 2024 in Tokyo, Japan.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Prime Minister’s visit to France is aimed to build upon the momentum of Thailand – France cooperation which has remarkably progressed during the past 3 months following his official visit to the country on March 7-12, 2024. The Prime Minister is scheduled to have a bilateral meeting with President Emmanuel Macron to follow up on outcomes of their previous meeting, particularly on trade and investment, defense industry, and soft power. He will lead a group of Thai business executives to attend Thailand - France Business Forum & Roundtable, which is a consequence of the two leaders’ meeting in March as well.
The Prime Minister is scheduled to pay an official visit to the Republic of Italy, and have a bilateral discussion with Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni. His official visit is aimed to strengthen relations and cooperation in the areas of mutual interest, e.g., renewable energy; sports tourism; medical science and pharmaceuticals; and defense cooperation, as well as exchange of expertise on GI registration in Europe, promotion of SMEs in space industry, and food sustainability. The Prime Minister will also meet with Italy’s global corporations, including president of the National Chamber of Italian Fashion, and will invite them to consider investment in Thailand, especially in the fields of fashion and soft power, agriculture and food, automobiles, and energy.
Following his mission in Europe, the Prime Minister will fly to Japan to attend and deliver a keynote address at the 29th Nikkei Forum Future of Asia. The aim is to build confidence of Japanese investors, and attract more of their investment, as Thailand is Japan’s largest and most important investment destination in ASEAN. The 29th Nikkei Forum Future of Asia will be held under the theme: “Asian Leadership in an Uncertain World”. The Prime Minister will emphasize political and economic resilience and broader business opportunities.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/82863