รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM pleased Japanese media accepts Thailand as an important investment base in parts manufacturing and electric vehicles (EV) and a key supply chains in the region.


วันจันทร์ที่ 24 เมษายน 2566
24/04/2566
พิมพ์
PM pleased Japanese media accepts Thailand as an important investment base in parts manufacturing and electric vehicles (EV) and a key supply chains in the region.
PM pleased Japanese media accepts Thailand as an important investment base in parts manufacturing and electric vehicles (EV) and a key supply chains in the region.
April 21, 2023 Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha pleased that Nikkei Japan news agency sees Thailand emerging as an important destination for Japanese, Chinese and South Korean investors’ parts production base and electric vehicles (EV) with many companies considering more investments and increase production capacity.
Acting Government Spokesperson stated that Nikkei had revealed that Southeast Asia has become a key base for EV production, with several EV manufacturers from Japan, China and South Korea competing to build supply chains in the region. Many has already begun to build a factory or are planning to produce parts and assembly of EV cars in Thailand, after being motivated by investment promotion policies to promote EV production to produce for EV companies in Thailand. South Korean car maker Hyundai Motor and Chinese car maker BYD have planned to start EV production in Thailand, with BYD also plan to launch a factory next year. This would reach a production capacity of 150,000 cars per year, including SAIC Motor, a MG car manufacturer, has planned production in Thailand as well.
According to the Deputy Government Spokesperson, Thailand is emerging as a major automobile manufacturing country in Southeast Asia and the government has been continuously supporting EV production by providing benefits and incentives for investor, resulting in good feedbacks from EV manufacturers.  Moreover, the government has promoted and supported the production and use of EVs for Thailand so, Thailand could become the hub of both production and EV market in the region.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/67585