รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM updated on preparation for overseas voting


วันจันทร์ที่ 24 เมษายน 2566
PM updated on preparation for overseas voting
PM updated on preparation for overseas voting
April 24, 2023, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha was reported on the preparation for overseas voting. Concerned agencies, namely, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Election Commission, the Ministry of Interior, and Thailand Post, have been working in an integrative manner to facilitate voting of overseas Thai in all aspects.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs has conducted training of consular staff at the royal Thai embassies and consulate across the globe, while the Election Commission will provide related equipment and accessories, such as polling stations, ballot box straps, plastic strips, etc., to the royal Thai embassies and consulates. Overseas voting dates are set on April 24- May 5, 2023. Thai citizens abroad are advised to keep updated on the venue, exact date and time of voting at the royal Thai embassies and consulates of their residency.
This year, the Election Commission has developed real-time OVMS (Oversea Voting Monitoring System) to closely monitor every single step of overseas voting, from training and ballot casting to delivery of diplomatic mail bags to ensure the timely arrival of the ballots. The Election Commission also reported on the outcome of registration for advanced voting, both within and outside of electoral constituencies, and overseas voting, which was opened from March 25- April 9, 2023. According to the report, the number of registrants for advanced voting accounts for 2,350,969 (as of April 10, 2023, at 2030hrs), and can be categorized as follows:
Advanced voting outside of their electoral constituencies: 2,216,950 people
Advanced voting within their electoral constituencies: 18,880 people
Overseas voting: 115,139 people
The Government wants to ensure that the people are well facilitated, and overseas voting be conducted in an orderly, transparent, and accountable manner. Detail on overseas voting may be acquired via various channels, i.e., websites of royal Thai embassies and consulates, and the Election Commission’s “Smart Vote” application.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/67542