รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​The government has closely monitored the situation in Sudan. Ready to bring back students and ensuring their academic credits transfer to schools in Thailand.


วันจันทร์ที่ 24 เมษายน 2566
24/04/2566
พิมพ์
​The government has closely monitored the situation in Sudan. Ready to bring back students and ensuring their academic credits transfer to schools in Thailand.
​The government has closely monitored the situation in Sudan. Ready to bring back students and ensuring their academic credits transfer to schools in Thailand.
April 23, 2023, Deputy Government Spokesperson Rachada Dhnadirek disclosed that the government has closely follow up the ongoing situation in Sudan. General Supoj Malaniyom, Secretary-General of the National Security Council (NSC) and other agencies recently gathered to discuss the situation.
Ms. Rachada said that Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) has reported that the situation in Sudan is currently uncertain because clashes are still scattered and there are risks both inside and outside the house.  MFA had proposed evacuation routes to safer areas at airports of neighboring countries such as Cairo, Saudi Arabia and the US military base in Djibouti. In addition, the Royal Thai Air Force has prepared the aircraft for evacuation once the safest route has confirmed. The Southern Border Provinces Administrative Center (SBPAC) will be the main agency providing transportation as well as ensuring their academic credits transfer to schools in Thailand. Communication will also be made to inform students in Sudan, their families and Thai society about the situation.
SBPAC is currently setting up a coordination center at the local level together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It will focus on communicating with 91 families of the students studying in Sudan, as well as providing hotline 1880 to address the issue. In addition, SBPAC will coordinate with relevant agencies to welcome Thai students back to their homeland, provide accommodations along with taking care of their education needs for those who wish not to return to study in Sudan, said Ms. Rachada.
General Supoj has also emphasized the importance of communication and coordination in addressing the crisis. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will be the main agency to monitor the situation and prepare for evacuation on various routes.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/67550