รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM commends collaboration between OSMEP and UN Women to promote women's economic empowerment


วันจันทร์ที่ 24 เมษายน 2566
PM commends collaboration between OSMEP and UN Women to promote women's economic empowerment
PM commends collaboration between OSMEP and UN Women to promote women's economic empowerment
April 24, 2023, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha commended the collaboration between Office of SMEs Promotion (OSMEP) and UN Women, through the signing of an MOU, to promote gender equality and women economic empowerment.
OSMEP and UN Women have made an agreement to support supplier diversity and more gender-responsive procurement, in particular with regard to small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) led by women and those from vulnerable groups, as women-owned businesses now represent only 1% of total procurement spending.
The cooperation framework consists of three distinct goals. Firstly, the framework includes joint research studies or policy reviews aimed at supporting supplier diversity and more gender-responsive procurement. Secondly, efforts will be made to enhance the database and establish a clear definition of "women-owned business" in Thailand, categorized by business type. This systematic data collection and analysis will support future economic policies. Finally, the framework aspires to create market opportunities by connecting buyers from the private and public sectors with women entrepreneurs and gender-responsive enterprises.
This collaboration is under the umbrella of UN Women’s WE RISE Together programme, which seeks to empower underrepresented groups of entrepreneurs, particularly women in SMEs, and create equal market opportunities by advancing supplier diversity and gender-responsive procurement in Thailand and Vietnam through: 1) healthier ecosystem, 2) more effective business models and networking, 3) capable buyers, and 4) equal market opportunities.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Prime Minister is pleased with this collaboration, as the Government has placed great importance on promoting gender equality and women's economic empowerment in accordance with the humanitarian principle and the Gender Equality Act, B.E. 2558.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/67541