รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM delighted with the popularity of Thai instant noodles in the South Korean market, with export growth increasing by 57.1% year on year and expect to increase further.


วันจันทร์ที่ 24 เมษายน 2566
PM delighted with the popularity of Thai instant noodles in the South Korean market, with export growth increasing by 57.1% year on year and expect to increase further.
PM delighted with the popularity of Thai instant noodles in the South Korean market, with export growth increasing by 57.1% year on year and expect to increase further.
Prime Minister delighted with the popularity of Thai instant noodles in the South Korean market, with export growth increasing by 57.1% year on year and expect to increase further.
April 23, 2023, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that the Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha were pleased that the trend of Thai exports was increasing. According to a report from the Office of Foreign Trade Promotion in Seoul, South Korea, Thai instant noodle products are very popular in the South Korean market.
Government Spokesperson said the Thai food trend has spread across the world. In the last year, Thai food, drink, or dessert menus have been gaining popularity. This has led to the popularity of Thai food in the form of dry food such as instant noodles, especially in South Korea. The diverse selection and unique flavours of Thai instant noodles have a strong appeal for South Korean consumers, who enjoy spicy flavours such as tom yum, pad thai, and crab curry. This has resulted in a continuing growth trend for Thailand's instant noodles in South Korea. In 2022, South Korea imported instant noodles from Thailand worth about 1.92 million US dollars, increasing by 57.1% and tending to grow continuously. This growth trend is expected to continue due to the popularity of Thai cuisine, which presents a good opportunity to expand the export of Thai instant noodles in Asia. This is due to the continuing growth trend in the consumption of ready-to-eat food products in Asia and other regions of the world in 2022–2024, Anucha said.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the prime minister is pleased with the export numbers for Thai products. The popularity of Thai instant noodles in South Korea represents another significant opportunity for Thai products to gain popularity and increase their value through the soft power of the Thai food industry. It is vital that Thai industries monitor and evaluate popular trends and adapt their products accordingly in order to seize more opportunities and create more value-added for their products.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/67576