รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM promotes the life science industry and expresses the readiness of Thailand to be a high-value medical and health hub.


วันจันทร์ที่ 24 เมษายน 2566
PM promotes the life science industry and expresses the readiness of Thailand to be a high-value medical and health hub.
PM promotes the life science industry and expresses the readiness of Thailand to be a high-value medical and health hub.
April 24, 2023, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha promoted the propulsion of the life science industry with the cooperation of government agencies and the private sector to stimulate the economy and express the readiness of Thailand to be a high-value medical and health hub for strengthening the life sciences industry to create a better quality of life sustainably.
Thailand Center of Excellence for Life Sciences (TCELS), under the supervision of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research, and Innovation, the Federation of Thai Industries (FTI), the Board of Trade of Thailand, and the Office of Small and Medium Enterprises Promotion (OSMEP), have integrated to work together to promote the life science industry to be ranked among the top 10 industries of the country. These will push Thailand to become a high-value medical and health hub for strengthening the life sciences industry, which brings knowledge of life sciences to be utilized in the production of products or services to improve the quality of life. Therefore, it is an opportunity for more than 6,000 SMEs.
In early April 2023, the "TCELS Life Sciences Beyond Aspiration" event was organized, and TCELS stated additional information that Thai pharmaceutical products have a market value of about 240 billion baht in 2022 and a growth rate of 3–5%, divided into 30% domestic production and 70% imported, which has a high market value. It is therefore an important opportunity to expand the potential of small and medium enterprises (MSME), cooperate with the public and private sectors to grow and compete internationally. Currently, there are actions from many sectors, for example.
- Pushing the standards of growing herbs by the Office of Small and Medium Enterprises Promotion (OSMEP) will support SMEs in terms of finance, management process, sales, and marketing, such as the "Big Brother Project," to create SMEs that are good businessmen who are smart and able to look for the new market, including a new generation of entrepreneurs.
- Open a consultation clinic to promote entrepreneurs by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), which will provide advice from the beginning, innovative products, funding, and preparing authorization documents for innovative products in order to promote the country's innovative products.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Prime Minister is pleased with this cooperation to promote the life science industry for better quality of life and increase national competitiveness. Thailand has the potential to develop a health and medical industry that can be extended to production and to be utilized for better creating business opportunities as an important mechanism to drive the country's economy efficiently.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/67577