รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM leads government officials and private sector to present floral offerings on occasion of Thai National Day and Father’s Day on December 5, 2022


วันอังคารที่ 6 ธันวาคม 2565
พิมพ์
PM leads government officials and private sector to present floral offerings on occasion of Thai National Day and Father’s Day on December 5, 2022
PM leads government officials and private sector to present floral offerings on occasion of Thai National Day and Father’s Day on December 5, 2022
December 5, 2022, at 0830hrs, at Sanam Luang Royal Plaza, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha and Assoc. Prof. Naraporn Chan-o-cha, spouse, presided over the ceremony to present floral offerings and pay homage to H.M. King Bhumibol Adulyadej The Great on occasion of His Majesty’s birthday anniversary, Thai National Day, and the Father’s Day. Participating in the ceremony were the House Speaker, head of the Supreme Court and spouse, President of the Senate, heads of constitutional organizations and spouses, cabinet members and spouses, PM’s Secretary General, Bangkok Governor, commanders-in-chief and spouses, Commander of the Royal Thai Police, chiefs of public agencies and officials of equivalent-level, permanent secretary to Bangkok Metropolitan Administration, and the private sector.
Upon arrival at the Sanam Luang Royal Plaza, the Prime Minister paid homage in front of H.M. King Bhumibol Adulyadej The Great’s portrait, and offered two traditional cone-shaped floral receptacles, one for himself and the other, on behalf of members of the cabinet, while the Prime Minister’s spouse presented floral receptacle on behalf of spouses of cabinet members.
He, then, made a statement in remembrance of His Majesty to express reverence and profound gratitude over his immeasurable benevolence on occasion of His Majesty’s birthday anniversary and Father’s Day on December 5, 2022. The Prime Minister stressed that all the Thai people commit to perform good deeds for the Royal Father, and would remember His teachings, forever be humble subjects of the late King, and pledged to live up to His aspirations.
After the laudatory statement, he led the participants to bow 3 times before the House Speaker, head of the Supreme Court, President of the Senate, heads of constitutional organizations, PM’s Secretary General, Bangkok Governor, commanders-in-chief of the Military, Commander of the Royal Thai Police, chair of National Broadcasting and Telecommunication Commission, chair of Anti-Money Laundering board, chair of Public Sector Anti-Corruption Commission, chiefs of public agencies and officials of equivalent-level, permanent secretary to Bangkok Metropolitan Administration, and the private sector presenting floral receptacles on behalf of respective agencies to complete the ceremony.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/62334