รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM congratulates Thai youths for winning at World Robot Olympiad 2022


วันอังคารที่ 6 ธันวาคม 2565
พิมพ์
PM congratulates Thai youths for winning at World Robot Olympiad 2022
PM congratulates Thai youths for winning at World Robot Olympiad 2022
Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that on December 6, 2022, at 0900hrs, Minister of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation Anek Laothamatas led a group of people, comprising president of National Science Museum Thailand Rawin Raviwongse, Governor of Lampang province Chatchawan Chayabutr, CEO of Gammaco (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Jakarin Chantravisoot, and representatives of Thai youths (Teams “ThaiHerbGood” and “PANYA ROBOT”) who attended the World Robot Olympiad 2022, to pay a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha. Participating in the meeting were Minister of Interior Gen. Anupong Paojinda and PM’s Secretary General Distat Hotrakitya.
The Prime Minister congratulated the success of both teams, as “ThaiHerbGood”, represented by students from Assumption Suksa School Lampang Campus, won the 1st place under Robo Mission Senior category, and “PANYA ROBOT”, represented by students from Panya Robot Academy, won the 2nd place under Robo Sports category. The World Robot Olympiad 2022 was held in Dortmund, Germany in November 2022. He commended the students for bringing pride to the country, and hoped they would build upon this success and achieve their dream goal. The Prime Minister was also presented with his portrait drawn by a Grade-5 student from Assumption Suksa School Lampang Campus.
As for the next project, National Science Museum, in collaboration with Gammaco (Thailand) Co., Ltd., will organize a robot competition: the “FIRST LEGO League Thailand 2022/2023” for students from the elementary and secondary levels during February 2-4, 2023. Further detail may be obtained at the website: www.nsm.or.th, or Facebook : NSMThailand.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/62362