รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Cabinet approves Ministerial Declaration on Digital Cooperation for Shaping Our Common Future to be adopted at Asia - Pacific Digital Ministerial Conference 2022


วันพุธที่ 9 พฤศจิกายน 2565
พิมพ์
​Cabinet approves Ministerial Declaration on Digital Cooperation for Shaping Our Common Future to be adopted at Asia - Pacific Digital Ministerial Conference 2022
​Cabinet approves Ministerial Declaration on Digital Cooperation for Shaping Our Common Future to be adopted at Asia - Pacific Digital Ministerial Conference 2022
Deputy Government Spokesperson Thipanan Sirichana disclosed that the cabinet, in its meeting on November 8, 2022, has made approval to the “Ministerial Declaration on Digital Cooperation for Shaping Our Common Future”, as proposed by Ministry of Digital Economy and Society. The Declaration will be adopted at the Asia - Pacific Digital Ministerial Conference 2022 to be hosted by South Korea’s Ministry of Science and ICT, in collaboration with UNESCAP, in Seoul, South Korea on November 10.
Ministerial Declaration on Digital Cooperation for Shaping Our Common Future prescribes digital cooperation of the Asia-Pacific countries in 6 areas:
Network: Expanding investment in digital infrastructure network and sharing best practices to ensure widespread access to safe, secure, and affordable connectivity in the Asia-Pacific.
Ethics: Using emerging digital technologies and AI for the benefit of human quality development.
Data use: Developing fair and legitimate access to digital information, promoting use of data to enhance socio-economic value, and linking public and personal data to create database for decision-making.
Workforce development: Incubating digital native generations, enhancing digital capacity of regional workforce for security and sustainability of digital ecosystem development.
International cooperation: promoting consensus and cooperation among stakeholders of various groups, i.e., public, industrial, and civil society sectors, and international community.
Others: Ministerial Declaration on Digital Cooperation for Shaping Our Common Future will be presented at the 79th Session of UNESCAP. Digital ministerial meeting will be held on a regular basis
The Ministerial Declaration on Digital Cooperation for Shaping Our Common Future is an important step forward for Thailand to cooperate with the international community in creating awareness on the importance of digital technology to human life and industrial, political, socio-economic and cultural development. Under the Declaration, participating Asia-Pacific countries will affirm their commitment to promote digital cooperation through the building of secure, safe, and accountable digital ecosystem which is accessible to all.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/61446