รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM chairs first meeting of economic ministers


วันอังคารที่ 28 พฤษภาคม 2567
28/05/2567
พิมพ์
PM chairs first meeting of economic ministers
PM chairs first meeting of economic ministers
May 27, 2024, at 1630hrs, at the Green Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin presided over the 1/2024 meeting of economic ministers and related agencies. Participating in the meeting were Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Commerce Phumtham Wechayachai, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Pichai Chunhavajira, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Energy Pirapan Salirathavibhaga, Minister of Agriculture and Cooperatives Thamanat Prompow, Minister of Tourism and Sports Sermsak Pongpanit, Minister of Industry Pimphattra Wichaikul, Deputy Minister of Transport Manaporn Charoensri, Deputy Minister of Finance Julapun Amornvivat, Deputy Minister of Finance Phaophum Rojanasakul, Thai trade representative ML Chayotid Kridakon, Permanent Secretary to Ministry of Finance Lavaron Sangsnit, Secretary General of the National Economic and Social Development Council Danucha Pichayanan, Director General of the Budget Bureau Chalermphol Pensoot, Secretary General of the Board of Investment (BOI) Narit Therdsteerasukdi, Director General of the Fiscal Policy Office Pornchai Thirraveja, and governor of the Bank of Thailand Sethaput Suthiwartnarueput.
Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed that the Prime Minister expressed concern over the economic performances which are lower than forecasted. Although Thailand is yet to enter the state of technical recession thanks to tourism industry, the engines of growth are not driven at full speed. Coupling with staggering global economic growth, grassroots people’s weakening purchasing power, the issue of climate change, and such structural problems as the aging society, national competitiveness, household debts, and non-performing debt (NPL), economic indicators and figures continue to show unfavorable pace of growth. A number of problems need to be address through structural reform, while others could be tackled right away, which is what the Government is doing, i.e., accelerating public sector’s budget disbursement, stimulating people’s purchasing power, and invigorating tourism, among others. The meeting was aimed to brainstorm and identify the best ways to bolster economic growth in line with the country’s potentials.  After the meeting, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Pichai Chunhavajira, Deputy Minister of Finance Julapun Amornvivat, and Deputy Minister of Finance Phaophum Rojanasakul disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The meeting was held following an official data showed that the country’s economy growth did not meet the target, especially the country’s GDP which is now forecasted at 2.5 down from the previous forecast of 2.7. According to the Deputy Prime Minister, both long-term, medium-term and immediate solutions were discussed as GDP does not just decrease now, but has been on a steady decline during the past 10-15 years. Last year’s GDP was at 1.9, while the GDP of the first quarter of this year is 1.5. However, considering Thailand’s potentials, the country’s GDP should at least be 3.5 or higher, but it has continued to be below the benchmark, which is lower than some neighboring countries and trade partners/competitors. Only few countries that have lower GDP than Thailand, e.g., European countries, England and Japan, etc.
Additionally, a major problem that stagger the Thai economy is low manufacturing capacity as a result of the decreasing purchasing power due to lack of income. There is, therefore, a need to increase manufacturing in both agricultural and other industries in parallel with an increase of purchasing power. Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Thailand (BoT) need to work together to identify the most appropriate inflation and policy interest rates in a bid to sustain both manufacturers and consumers. SMEs must have more access to financial sources to improve liquidity. All measures will be implemented within financial and fiscal frameworks.
The meeting agreed upon the implementation of stimulus measures from now until late this year prior to the digital wallet scheme being put in place. The Prime Minister assigned each agency to come up with proper measures that will drive forward the economy, and bring it to the table in two weeks. Office of National Economic and Social Development Council and the Fiscal Policy Office will act as joint secretary to the meeting and liaison offices on the matter.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/83596