รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand – Sri Lanka elevate relations and cooperation through signing of FTA, new Air Services Agreement, and MOU on gem and jewelry cooperation


วันอังคารที่ 6 กุมภาพันธ์ 2567
06/02/2567
พิมพ์
Thailand – Sri Lanka elevate relations and cooperation through signing of FTA, new Air Services Agreement, and MOU on gem and jewelry cooperation
Thailand – Sri Lanka elevate relations and cooperation through signing of FTA, new Air Services Agreement, and MOU on gem and jewelry cooperation
February 3, 2024, at 1600hrs (Colombo, Sri Lanka local time), at the Chamber Hall, the President’s House, Colombo, Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin and President of Sri Lanka H.E. Mr. Ranil Wickremesinghe co-chaired the signing ceremony of the following 3 documents:
1. Thailand - Sri Lanka Free Trade Agreement (FTA): with Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Commerce Phumtham Wechayachai as signatory for Thailand
2. New Air Services Agreement between Thailand and Sri Lanka: which will replace the repealed Air Services Agreement signed on February 24, 2020. The new Agreement aims to minimize trade obstacles and enhance connectivity, tourism, and logistics, as well as air services, aviation rights and safety, customs services, etc., between the two countries, in line with the ICAO standard. Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Chakkraphong Saengmanee will be the signatory of the Agreement.
3. Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation between the Gem and Jewellery Research and Training Institute of Sri Lanka and the Gem and Jewelry Institute of Thailand (Public Organization): which is aimed at capacity building, and information and technology sharing within the gems and jewelry sector. Director of the Gem and Jewelry Institute of Thailand Sumed Prasongpongchai will be the Thai signatory of the MOU, and Mr. S. A. W. K. Jayasinghe, Research Director of the Gem and Jewelry Research and Training Institute of Sri Lanka is the signatory for Sri Lanka.
Later at 1620hrs, both the leaders held a joint press conference at the Banquet Hall, gist of which is as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed honor to receive the warm welcome and hospitality from His Excellency the President, and the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, and disclosed that a wide range of issues were discussed between him and the President. Thailand and Sri Lanka the discussion between him and the President. Thailand and Sri Lanka reaffirmed strong and close ties at every level based on shared historical and cultural connections, especially on the Buddhist faith.
Given the enormous potential between the two countries, the Prime Minister expressed belief that the signing of the Free Trade Agreement would significantly boost bilateral trade and investments in the years ahead. Signing of the new Air Services Agreement and the MoU between the Gem and Jewelry Research and Training Institute of Sri Lanka and the Gem and Jewelry Institute of Thailand would also provide tremendous business opportunities for both sides. With this historic momentum, the two leaders encourage their private sectors to explore the potentials of this two-way trade and investment.
On investment, Thailand aims to be the logistical hub in Southeast Asia, with the Landbridge project, connecting the Andaman Sea with the Gulf of Thailand, and reducing the transit time between the Pacific and the Indian Oceans. Thailand and Sri Lanka can also join hands in strengthening the connectivity between the Landbridge and Colombo Port.
On tourism, the Prime Minister announced that the Thai Airways would resume daily commercial flights between Bangkok and Colombo on March 31, 2024. The resumption of Thai Airways flights
will bring the two countries closer than ever. Thailand also proposes a trilateral collaboration on a three-country cruise tourism between India, Sri Lanka and Thailand. The promotion of cultural and Buddhist tourism was also highlighted in their discussion.
On development cooperation, the Prime Minister reaffirmed Thailand’s support for Sri Lanka’s human resource development under the “two-year implementation plan 2024 - 2025” with primary focus on agriculture and fishery sectors. He was also delighted to learn about the success of the recent exchanges of experts in the areas of marine ornamental fish breeding and the joint initiative on elephant welfare and habitation which is now in the pipeline. Thailand appreciates the Sri Lankan Government’s facilitation for the repatriation of Muthu Raja or Sak Surin back to Thailand for medical treatment last year, and thanks the Sri Lankan Government’s commitment to take good care of the other two Thai elephants, as they are a symbol of friendship and close ties between the two countries.
The Prime Minister and the Sri Lankan President agreed to maximize shared values and goals, not only at the bilateral level, but also in multilateral fora, in particular BIMSTEC, IORA, and ASEAN. As host of the 6th BIMSTEC Summit this year, Thailand looks forward to the active and constructive participation from Sri Lanka.
Thailand is the ASEAN candidature for the membership of the Human Right Council (HRC) for the term 2025 – 2027. The Prime Minister expressed confidence that Thailand and Sri Lanka could work constructively to promote human rights for the betterment of peoples of the two countries.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/78471