รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand-US to push forward cooperation on COVID-19 vaccines


วันพุธที่ 2 มิถุนายน 2564
พิมพ์
Thailand-US to push forward cooperation on COVID-19 vaccines
Thailand-US to push forward cooperation on COVID-19 vaccines
June 2, 2021, at 0930hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mrs. Wendy R. Sherman, Deputy Secretary of State of the United States of America, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of her official visit to Thailand. Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed the US Deputy Secretary of State, and congratulated her on the assumption of the position. He expressed belief that the US Deputy Secretary of State would take on a crucial role in deepening relations and friendship between Thailand and the US, which have spanned for over 188 years, with her experiences and expertise. He also conveyed his congratulations once again to President Joseph R. Biden Jr. for his presidency, and hoped that the two countries would continue to forge win–win cooperation under his leadership.
The US Deputy Secretary of State expressed appreciation toward the Prime Minister for his welcome, and commended ongoing relations between Thailand and the US, especially close security and economic cooperation. Under the COVID-19 situation, the US has a policy to make vaccines available to other countries, including Thailand, on which the Prime Minister expressed appreciation, and welcomed the US support on COVID-19 vaccines.
The Prime Minister and US Deputy Secretary of State also discussed other issues of mutual interest. The Prime Minister affirmed Thailand’s priority on climate change, which is in line with the country’s Bio-Circular-Green (BCG) Economic model, and would include the issue in the agenda of 2022 APEC Summit, to be hosted by Thailand. The Thai Government also declares trafficking in persons as a national agenda, and strives to solve the problem through the cooperation with various concerned sectors. The US Deputy Secretary of State marveled Thailand’s commitment and affirmed US support on the matter.
With regard to multilateral cooperation, the Prime Minister underscored Thailand’s commitment to endorse constructive roleof the US in the ASEAN region and Mekong sub-region, and to continue to cooperate with the US. Both parties also discussed the Myanmar situation. The US Deputy Secretary of State has closely followed up on the situation, and was confident that Thailand and ASEAN would take on a constructive role to seekfor peaceful solution to the crisis. She also expressed concern over the refugees, on which the Prime Minister stressed that Thailand has experiences in handling the refugees under the humanitarian principle. Thailand also hopes that the Myanmar situation be solved through the peaceful means.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/42353