รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on September 3, 2024. Some of the resolutions


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 19 กันยายน 2567
19/09/2567
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on September 3, 2024. Some of the resolutions
The cabinet met on September 3, 2024. Some of the resolutions
The cabinet met on September 3, 2024. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on health checks for informal workers
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on health checks for informal workers, as proposed by Ministry of Public Health.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation prescribes the rights of informal workers to receive health checks according to the following criteria and conditions:
1. Pre-placement examination (within 30 days after work starts) and periodic examination
2. Return to work examination: After an illness or injury that may cause the illness or injury to become more severe and may pose danger to oneself or others if returning to work.
3. Health check-up in case of emergency or urgent need
Occupational Health Service Offices may inform health checkup results to informal workers by: 1) Direct notification to informal workers; 2) Written notification; 3) e-notification; and 4) Any other method as specified by Director-General of the Department of Disease Control
The Ministerial Regulation on health checks for informal workers will take effect after 360 days from the date of announcement in the Royal Gazette.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on notification of the date, time and location of the vehicle arriving at international communicable disease control checkpoints, B.E. ...
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on notification of the date, time and location of the vehicle arriving at international communicable disease control checkpoints, B.E. ...
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on notification of the date, time and location of the vehicle arriving at international communicable disease control checkpoints, B.E. ... is aimed to prevent and control communicable diseases from spreading in the Kingdom. Criteria and condition are as follows:
1. Waterway
a. International vessels: to notify at least 24 hours in advance
b. International-voyage vessels: to notify at least 1 hour in advance
2. Roads
a. Trains, public buses, and freight trucks: to notify at least 1 hour in advance
b. Private cars and ambulances: To notify upon arrival at the international communicable disease control checkpoints
3. Airway: Aircrafts, helicopters, and cargo aircrafts: To notify within 15 days from the time the aircraft takes off from the ground (according to what specified in the registration form to be entered into the Kingdom.)
Title: Draft Announcement of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment on Zoning and Environment Protection Measures in Phuket Province, B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Announcement of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment on Zoning and Environment Protection Measures in Phuket Province, B.E. …, as proposed by the Ministry.
Gist
The draft Announcement of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment on Zoning and Environment Protection Measures in Phuket Province, B.E. … is an amendment to Announcement of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment on Zoning and Environment Protection Measures in Phuket Province, B.E. 2560 which will expire on December 15, 2024.
Gist of the amendment includes rezoning areas applicable under the environmental protection measures (from 8 zones to 9 zones); prescribing measures for protection, prevention, and impact mitigation from construction of buildings and factories; and prohibiting actions or activities that may be harmful or affect the ecosystem, among others.
Title: Prevention and suppression of sales of illegally-imported goods
The cabinet acknowledged 5 measures to address import of substandard goods and goods that are illegally imported, as proposed by Ministry of Commerce, and ordered concerned agencies to proceed accordingly.
Gist
The 5 measures comprise 63 operation plans in total. They are:
1. Strictly enforce regulations/laws
2. Amend regulations to be consistent with future trade
3. Tax measures
4. Measures to assist SMEs
5. Expand cooperation with partner countries
Title: Request for allocation of additional budget
The cabinet approved the allocation of Government’s central fund for contingency and emergency (FY2024) at the total amount of 250 billion Baht to the Royal Thai Air Forces for the procurement of medial equipment, as part of capacity building of military hospitals. This is as proposed by Ministry of Defense.
Gist
The budget will be used for the procurement of RapidArc radiotherapy machine to replace the old one which is now malfunctioned. The procurement will enhance capacity on comprehensive and highly efficient radiation therapy services to cancer patients.
Title: Request for allocation of Government’s central fund for contingency and emergency (FY2024)
The cabinet approved the allocation of Government’s central fund for contingency and emergency (FY2024) at the total amount of 247 billion Baht for the implementation of skill development project in tourism and service sector to address labor shortage. This is as proposed by Ministry of Labor.
Gist
This request is in line with the 13th National Economic and Social Development Plan, the 20-year National Strategy, and the 3rd National Tourism Development Plan (2023 - 2027). The aim is to address skilled labor shortage in tourism and service industry through developing Thai tourism to focus on quality and sustainability, increasing competitiveness, promoting value tourism that can adapt and grow sustainably, elevating personnel competency to be in line with ASEAN and international standards, developing new curriculum focusing on Upskill and Reskill, and using technology and innovation in the learning process.
Title: Request for allocation of Government’s central fund for contingency and emergency (FY2024)
The cabinet approved the allocation of Government’s central fund for contingency and emergency (FY2024) at the total amount of 2,289,382,200 Baht for the implementation of the Royal Irrigation Department’s 1,072 water resource development, water management and water management preparation projects. This is as proposed by Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives.
Gist
This is aimed to:
(1) To increase the efficiency of water drainage by removing weeds that obstruct waterways
(2) To repair/improve buildings and irrigation systems that have been damaged by floods or long-time usage
(3) To prevent flood and inundation in residential areas, agricultural and industrial areas
(4) To prepare for floods and droughts that may occur in the future
(5) To efficiently manage water for agriculture, consumption and other activities
Title: Request for allocation of Government’s central fund for contingency and emergency (FY2024)
The cabinet approved the allocation of Government’s central fund for contingency and emergency (FY2024) at the total amount of 635 billion Baht for the procurement of anti-narcotics equipment. This is as part of the Government’s urgent policy on anti-narcotics, and is proposed by the Royal Thai Police.
Gist
The budget will be allocated for the procurement of 5 sets of vehicle-mounted mobile x-ray scanners and transport vehicles to enhance efficiency of the Royal Thai Police’s anti-narcotics operation.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/88190