รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with head of WEF


วันพุธที่ 21 พฤษภาคม 2568
PM meets with head of WEF
PM meets with head of WEF
May 20, 2025, at 1430hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Mr. Mirek Dušek, managing director of the World Economic Forum (WEF), paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra. Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister thanked WEF for selecting her as one of the “Young Global Leaders 2025” which she was honored, and expressed her readiness to attend the 2026 WEF Annual Meeting in Davos, Switzerland as this would be a good chance to share the Thai Government’s policies with the global community.
WEF managing director was pleased to learn about the Prime Minister’s plan to participate in the 2026 WEF Annual Meeting. He commended Thailand’s proactive role on the international stage and its policy directives, especially the Soft Power policy to drive the economy forward and to seek new opportunities for Thailand and people.
On the establishment progress of the Center for the Fourth Industrial Revolution (C4IR), WEF-MD disclosed that the feasibility study is being carried out in collaboration with the Thai agencies, particularly ministries responsible for technology and agriculture. WEF has had experiences in establishing such organization in several countries with the aim to promote advanced innovations through collaborations between the public and private sectors. As for Thailand, focus will initially be made on the topics of smart agro technology and clean energy, and will later be expanded to cover such topics as AI and food technology which are relevant to the Government’s policy.
Both parties also exchanged views on global economic situation, especially the US tariff policy which has impacted countries in the Southeast Asian region. The Prime Minister stated about her discussion with other ASEAN Leaders on the matter and the opportunity for ASEAN Leaders to work closely together at the upcoming ASEAN Summit in Malaysia to identify the region’s common stances in response to the economic challenge. The Prime Minister reiterated that despite the rapidly -changing and uncertain global context, Thailand will continue to advance cooperation with partners in all dimensions in a bid to seek common ground on the economic rehabilitation.
Toward the end of the meeting, WEF-MD expressed his organization’s readiness to support the Thai Government, both in terms of know-how, partner networking, and preparation for the 2026 WEF Annual Meeting. He emphasized that only when playing a leading role in both public, business, and social sectors at the global stage that Thailand’s voice will be heard.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/96603