รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thai and Nepalese PMs witness signing of 8 MOUs between public and private sectors of the two countries


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 3 เมษายน 2568
03/04/2568
พิมพ์
Thai and Nepalese PMs witness signing of 8 MOUs between public and private sectors of the two countries
Thai and Nepalese PMs witness signing of 8 MOUs between public and private sectors of the two countries
April 2, 2025, at 1140hrs, at the Inner Santi Maitri Building, Government House, Government Spokesperson disclosed that Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra and the Prime Minister of Nepal, Rt. Hon. Mr. K. P. Sharma Oli, witnessed the signing of 8 MOUs between public and private sectors of the two countries. The 8 documents are:
1. Memorandum of Understanding between Thailand and Nepal on Tourism Cooperation
2. Memorandum of Understanding between Thailand and Nepal on Cultural Cooperation
3. Memorandum of Understanding between the Tourism Council of Thailand and Nepal Chamber of Commerce
4. Memorandum of Understanding between Faculty of Medicine Ramathibodi Hospital, Mahidol University and Nepal Netra Jyoti Sangh (NNJS)
5. Memorandum of Understanding between Kasetsart University and Janata Agro and Forestry Nepal (JFL)
6. Memorandum of Understanding between Siam University and Kathmandu University
7. Memorandum of Understanding between the Board of Trade of Thailand and Federation of Nepalese Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FNCCI)
8. Memorandum of Understanding between the Federation of Thai Industries and Confederation of Nepalese Industries (CNI)
Later at 1150hrs, the two Prime Ministers held a joint press conference, gist of which is as follows:
The Prime Minister was pleased and honored to welcome the Nepalese leader and the delegation on his official visit to Thailand, which is the first such visit in 66 years. Thailand and Nepal have had long-standing and close relations, with shared historical and cultural roots. This visit will further strengthen cooperation and open up new opportunities for future cooperation.
Energy cooperation was also discussed between the two parties. Thailand commended Nepal for its water resource management and the development of hydropower projects. Both the leaders agreed on energy and infrastructure cooperation promotion, business facilitations, reduction of trade barriers, and the building on existing economic advantages of both countries to drive up bilateral trade value from the current 40 million US dollars. Thailand will also encourage the private sector to expand investments in the Nepalese market.
The two countries came to terms on the importance of transportation route development to promote economic activities and tourism, and agreed on the increase of direct flights, Bangkok – Kathmandu. They also supported the launch of direct flights to Nepal’s Lumbini.
Both Thailand and Nepal committed to promote people-to-people relations, cultural exchanges, and religious and medical tourism. The Thai private sector, especially hotel, hospital, and airline operators, have played an important role in the development of Nepal's tourism industry.
The two Prime Ministers were pleased with the signing of 8 important MOUs, which further strengthen cooperation and relations between Thailand and Nepal. The Prime Minister also thanked Nepal for supporting Thailand as BIMSTEC Chair, and affirmed her commitment to work closely with BIMSTEC member countries to push forward BIMSTEC as key mechanism for regional cooperation.
The Prime Minister emphasized her commitment to enhance cooperation with Nepal at both the bilateral and multilateral levels with shared respect. Thailand stands ready to work together with Nepal on their path toward sustainable development for prosperity and well-being of the people of both countries. This official visit to Thailand of the Nepalese Prime Minister reflects close relationship and commitment of the two countries to move forward cooperation in all dimensions for long-term mutual benefits.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/95039