รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Cabinet approves Joint Action Plan on preventing and solving transboundary haze under “Clear Sky Strategy”


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 3 เมษายน 2568
03/04/2568
พิมพ์
Cabinet approves Joint Action Plan on preventing and solving transboundary haze under “Clear Sky Strategy”
Cabinet approves Joint Action Plan on preventing and solving transboundary haze under “Clear Sky Strategy”
April 1, 2025, at 1210hrs, at the Command Building I, Government House, following the weekly cabinet meeting, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra disclosed about the cabinet’s approval to the Joint Action Plan on preventing and solving transboundary haze under the “Clear Sky Strategy”.
The Joint Action Plan prescribes cooperation between 3 countries, namely, Lao PDR, Myanmar, and Thailand, to tackle transboundary haze through implementation of related activities: 1) controlling wildfires from open burning; 2. forecasting and monitoring haze situation; 3. managing agriculture in a sustainable manner; 4. enforcing laws, and promoting coordination between relevant agencies; and 5. tangibly implementing all of the above. Thailand will also forge cooperation with Cambodia in a similar manner.
The cabinet also acknowledged the implementation of measure to mitigate public’s burden on electricity cost, as proposed by Ministry of Energy, to reduce electricity tariffs for the period of May - August 2025 to no more than 3.99 Baht per unit without requesting for the Government’s additional subsidy.
The Prime Minister also disclosed the cabinet’s acknowledgement on the implementation of the model “House for Thais” scheme (1st phase- 4 projects) that aims to develop affordable housing on the State Railway of Thailand’s lands near public transportations for low-income individuals and new graduates to reduce the burden on their cost of living. Applicants whose qualifications have been approved by the Government Housing Bank will be shortlisted for the lucky draw to be carried out by the Government Lottery Office.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/95019