รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Govt strives to promote equal access to justice system


วันอังคารที่ 11 กุมภาพันธ์ 2568
11/02/2568
พิมพ์
Govt strives to promote equal access to justice system
Govt strives to promote equal access to justice system
February 7, 2025, at 1000hrs, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra delivered an opening speech for the Thailand Rule of Law Fair. Her speech is under the topic “Thailand Rule of Law Fair: Investing in the Rule of Law for a Sustainable Future”.
According to the Prime Minister, as Thailand is moving toward sustainable development, the Rule of Law is crucial for promoting social security and peace. It is not merely a guideline for state administration, but also a path toward economic and social advancement. True development muse be carried out on the basis of transparency, responsibility, and participation of all sectors in the society.
The Thai Government commits to restore the Rule of Law as a key fundamental to national development. Prosecution of culprits in stock market-related fraud cases, for instance, demonstrates its effort to promptly and transparently tackle fraud cases that affect the economy in a bid to promote transparency and justice, as well as to boost confidence on the country’s economic system.
The Government has also modernized and enhanced efficiency of the justice system to ensure better accessibility to legal services through adopting digital technology, such as setting up of an online platform that allows citizens in all areas, especially in the remote areas, to file lawsuits or immediately access information on their rights.
The Government has also placed great importance on promoting human rights equality to the marginalized groups, i.e., stateless people, to ensure that they have equal access to basic rights in the justice system, including legal assistance from lawyers and government agencies. They are also provided with social assistance, such as education, employment, and healthcare accessibility.
The Government’s effort to promote human rights is in line with UN’s 16th SDG which is to promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development. This not only minimizes social disparity, but also elevates Thailand as a country of opportunities and equality. Thailand is committed to developing the Rule of Law in line with international standards, particularly the development of institutional and social structures to enable the country to overcome limitations listed in the IMD Competitiveness Index. The Government also aims to build trust in state and legal system by working with civil society and international agencies, such as the OECD and The World Justice Project (WJP) to raise standards in all dimensions.
Investing in the Rule of Law is not just the Government’s duty, but a shared mission of all. Cooperation from all sectors will help strengthen Thailand's transparency, equity and stability. The Prime Minister expressed confidence that a transparent, fair and stable system will be the foundation for sustainable progress and advancement for generations to come. She wished the meeting a success with valuable recommendations for the country's development.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/93240