รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with supermodel Naomi Campbell


วันอังคารที่ 11 กุมภาพันธ์ 2568
11/02/2568
พิมพ์
PM meets with supermodel Naomi Campbell
PM meets with supermodel Naomi Campbell
February 10, 2025, at 1500hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Ms. Naomi Elaine Campbell paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra on occasion of her visit to Thailand. Participating in the meeting were Dr. Surapong Suebwonglee, Deputy Policy Advisor to the Prime Minister and Chairman of the National Soft Power Development Committee, Minister to the Prime Minister’s Office Jiraporn Sindhuprai, and Deputy Minister of Interior Theerarat Samrejvanich. Deputy Government Spokesperson Sasikarn Watthanachan disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed and commended Ms. Campbell’s accomplishments in the fashion industry, which have inspired people across the globe including the Thais. Ms. Campbell’s visit to Thailand has significantly created an impression and positivity to the Thai fashion industry. She was also pleased to learn that an earlier discussion between Ms. Campbell and Chairman of the National Soft Power Development Committee, Minister to the Prime Minister’s Office, and Deputy Minister of Interior went well, and that Ms.Campbell was ready to work together with Thailand to advance the Thai fashion industry under the Government’s soft power policy.
Ms. Campbell expressed appreciation for the Prime Minister’s welcome. She has visited Thailand several times before and falls in love with its weather and the Thai hospitality. During this visit to Thailand, she had chances to stop by some malls to observe local products, cosmetics, and fashion designs, and was impressed with their perfectionism. Ms. Campbell is willing to support Thai fashion industry through exchanging her knowledge and experiences for capacity building and incubation of the Thai designers for them to be able to shine in the international fashion world.
The Prime Minister emphasized that the Thai Government is opened to cooperation from all concerned sectors in supporting and creating unique and new Thai fashions. The Prime Minister wants to collaborate with Ms. Campbell on the exchange of knowledge and expertise in order to support Thai people and youths who are talented in modeling, designing and other fashion skills to become successful in the global fashion industry.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/93241