รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Govt to expedite eradication of call center gangs


วันอังคารที่ 11 กุมภาพันธ์ 2568
11/02/2568
พิมพ์
Govt to expedite eradication of call center gangs
Govt to expedite eradication of call center gangs
February 11, 2025, Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed that at the weekly cabinet meeting, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra has instructed relevant agencies, i.e., Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Digital Economy and Society, and security authorities, to rush their operations in suppressing transnational crimes and online scams. They were ordered to liaise with Chinese authorities to particularly crack down call center gangs.
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense Phumtham Wechayachai reported to the cabinet that an order to transfer high-ranking Thai officials who are allegedly involved with the call center gangs would be issued today. He also ordered the National Broadcasting and Telecommunications Commission (NBTC) to beef up its measure on telecommunication services cutoff in the area of Sakaeo’s Aranya Prathet district, which is right across Poipet, whereas utility cut in the western area across Tak’s Mae Sot district will continue to be strictly carried out.
On the humanitarian aspect, the Thai Government has allowed patients from Myanmar to receive treatment in Thai hospitals. Vehicles from the neighboring countries may also enter Thailand for refueling. The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense affirmed the Government’s commitment to continue to implement measures to eradicate call center gangs backed by influential people, in accordance with the Prime Minister’s policy.
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Digital Economy and Society Prasert Jantararuangtong also reported that the Ministry, through collaborations with the DSI, the Central Investigation Bureau, and NBTC, is preparing for the first performance report to summarize what has been done in the first 15 days, and the second, after 30 days. NBTC is also instructed to immediately take action and cut signals if it is found that telecom signal be linked to any building that is likely to house call center gangs. Other relevant agencies are also ordered to closely monitor the movement.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/93289