รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on June 10, 2025


วันจันทร์ที่ 16 มิถุนายน 2568
16/06/2568
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on June 10, 2025
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on Customs Control Areas (No. ..), B.E. ....
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on Customs Control Areas (No. ..), B.E. ...., as proposed by Ministry of Finance, which has been reviewed by Office of Council of State. The Ministry is instructed to take comments of Ministry of Transport and Ministry of Industry into consideration.
Gist
The draft Royal Decree on Customs Control Areas (No. ..), B.E. ...., is an amendment to the Royal Decree on Customs Control Areas, B.E. 2560, to designate the areas of Chiang Rai’s Chiang Khong District and Wiang Kaen District (specifically in Muang Yai and Lai Ngao subdistricts); and Phayao’s Phu Sang District (specifically Phu Sang subdistrict) as additional customs control areas (current customs control areas in Chiang Rai include Chiang Saen District, Mae Chan District- specifically Mae Kham and Mae Chan subdistricts, and Mae Sai District).
Topography along the border of Chiang Rai and Phayao Provinces consists of the narrow and shallow parts of Mekong River, and the high mountainous areas, which is difficult for customs officers to promptly perform customs control duties under the normal legal procedure. However, customs officers are legally authorized to apprehend wrongdoers without a warrant within the customs control areas, making them perform their task in preventing and suppressing customs-related offences in a more efficient manner.
Title: Request for allocation of FY2025 central fund for emergency and contingency for implementation of 2024 flood-affected farmers rehabilitation projects (additional)
The cabinet approved the allocation of FY2025 central fund for emergency and contingency, at the budget framework of 1,309.76 million Baht, for implementation of 2024 flood-affected farmers rehabilitation projects (additional). The budget will be allocated for: 1) rehabilitation of flood-affected farmers in 2024 (848.66 million Baht); and 2) rehabilitation of Southern flood-affected farmers in 2024 (461.10 million Baht).
Gist
The allocated budget will be used for the following projects:
Project to increase rice production efficiency for farmers affected by floods (Rice Department)
Project to promote alternative careers in fisheries, raising aquatic animals in plastic ponds and in land cages (Department of Fisheries)
Project to increase efficiency of rice production of rice farmers affected by floods in the South (Rice Department)
Project to promote alternative careers in fisheries for flood-affected victims in the South (Department of Fisheries)
Livestock career rehabilitation project for farmers affected by floods in the South in 2024 (Department of Livestock Development)
Agricultural land restoration and production adjustment according to the agricultural map for proactive management (Agri-Map) in areas affected by floods in the South in 2024 (Department of Land Development)
Project to prevent spread of plant pests and to provide support on plant varieties and production factors for farmers affected by floods in the South in 2024/2025 (Department of Agriculture)
Measures to reduce debt burden for members of agricultural institutions/farmer groups (Department of Cooperative Promotion)
Title: 3/2025 Cabinet Retreat
The cabinet approved the 3/2025 cabinet retreat, as proposed by Office of the Prime Minister’s Secretary General.
Gist
The Prime Minister has approved the schedule for the 3/2025 cabinet retreat in Phitsanulok Province on June 23-24, 2025 to follow up on various implementations according to the Government’s policy directives in the Lower Northern Provincial Cluster I (Tak, Phitsanulok, Phetchabun, Sukhothai, Uttaradit).
Members of the cabinet are instructed to conduct field visits to follow up on policy implementations under their responsibilities. Key issues to be followed up on during the cabinet retreat in the Lower Northern Provincial Cluster I are: (1) trade promotion, investment in transport networks and infrastructure to support development and Smart City; (2) standardized and sustainable tourism development to become a MICE CITY; (3) agriculture uplift to increase value and comprehensive marketing based on innovation and technology; (4) integrated human resources development and health; (5) systematic and sustainable management of natural resources and the environment; and (6) security and safety enhancement of life and property, developing a crisis preparedness system, and expanding cooperation and relations with foreign countries in a balanced manner.
Title: Request for allocation of FY2025 central fund for emergency and contingency for electricity bill subsidy
The cabinet approved the proposal of Ministry of Interior to allocate the Government’s FY2025 central fund for emergency and contingency, at the budget framework of 1,418.01 million baht, to Metropolitan Electricity Authority (MEA) and Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA) to alleviate public burden on electricity cost.
Gist
Residential electricity users who belong to the vulnerability groups and consumed no more than 300 units per month will be subsidized for their electricity charges incurred during October 2024 and December 2024. The measure aims to mitigate the impact of constant energy price surge.
Title: Request for use of watershed area, class 1A, for construction of Nam Ri Reservoir under the royal initiative
The cabinet approved the use of watershed area, class 1A, with the total area of 550 rai 3 ngan 2 square wah, for the construction of Nam Ri Reservoir under the royal initiative in Nan province, as proposed by Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives.
Gist
The construction of Nam Ri Reservoir under the royal initiative is aimed to provide consumption water supply for residents of ​​Chaloem Phra Kiat District, Nan province. The reservoir will benefit 12,007 households in the district. However, some of the reservoir areas (550 rai, 3 ngan, and 72 square wah) overlap with Class 1A watershed area. Therefore, the cabinet approved the use of watershed area, class 1A for the Royal Irrigation Department to construct Nam Ri Reservoir.
Title: Joint Statement of the 5th Sub-regional Conference on Countering Terrorism and Transnational Security
The cabinet approved the following proposals of National Security Council (NSC):
Approved Thailand’s adoption of the draft Joint Statement of the 5th Sub-regional Conference on Countering Terrorism and Transnational Security. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist, NSC may proceed to revise the document without having to resubmit to the cabinet
Authorized Mr. Ratchakon Naphaphonphiphat Deputy Secretary-General of the National Security Council, as head of the Thai delegation, to adopt the Joint Statement
Gist
The Joint Statement of the 5th Sub-regional Conference on Countering Terrorism and Transnational Security underscores commitment of member states to exchange information on terrorism and the spread of violent extremism in the region, especially online dissemination among youth, as well as regional threats that tends to expand and become more severe, such as irregular migration, human trafficking, cyber security, and critical infrastructure, etc., Member states also commit to sharing operational guidelines and best practices so that other countries can adapt them according to their own context.
Title: Letters of Intent between Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation of the Kingdom of Thailand and China PRC’s Ministry of Science and Technology
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation:
Approved two Letters of Intent between Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation of the Kingdom of Thailand and China PRC’s Ministry of Science and Technology.
Letter of Intent on Jointly Implementing the Cooperation Program on Traditional Chinese Medicine Science, Technology and Innovation between the Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Ministry of Science and Technology of the People’s Republic of China; and
Letter of Intent between the Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Ministry of Science and Technology of the People’s Republic of China on Jointly Implementing Special Program for Science, Technology and Innovation Cooperation
Authorized Minister of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation or a representative to sign the two documents
Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet, but to seek consultation with Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/97486