รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on May 27, 2025


วันศุกร์ที่ 30 พฤษภาคม 2568
30/05/2568
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on May 27, 2025
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Asia-Pacific Telecommunity (APT) Ministerial Statement (Tokyo Statement)
The cabinet approved the draft Asia-Pacific Telecommunity (APT) Ministerial Statement (Tokyo Statement), and authorized Minister of Digital Economy and Society or a representative to adopt the Statement. This is as proposed by Minister of Digital Economy and Society.
Gist
The draft Asia-Pacific Telecommunity (APT) Ministerial Statement (Tokyo Statement) manifests shared intention of APT member states to cooperate and work together in telecommunications and ICT, including digital connectivity, digital innovation and entrepreneurship, trust and security, universal digital access and capacity building, sustainability, and partnership and collaboration. The draft Tokyo Statement will be adopted on May 30-31, 2025 in Tokyo, Japan.
Title: Ratification of International Labor Organization’s Occupational Safety and Health Convention, 1981 (No. 155) and Protocol of 2002 to the Occupational Safety and Health Convention, 1981
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Labor:
Approved ratification of International Labor Organization’s Occupational Safety and Health Convention, 1981 (No. 155) and Protocol of 2002 to the Occupational Safety and Health Convention, 1981
Assigned Ministry of Foreign Affairs to prepare the Instrument of Ratification for accession to International Labor Organization’s Occupational Safety and Health Convention, 1981 (No. 155) and Protocol of 2002 to the Occupational Safety and Health Convention, 1981
Assigned Minister of Labor to deposit the instrument of ratification with the ILO Director-General as the Depositary of the Convention.
The deposit of the Instrument of Ratification to the ILO Director-General will take place during the 113th Session of the International Labor Conference, held on June 9 - 13 , 2025 in Geneva, Switzerland.
Gist
International Labor Organization’s Occupational Safety and Health Convention, 1981 (No. 155) requires each Member to formulate, implement and periodically review a coherent national policy on occupational safety, occupational health and the working environment. The aim of the policy shall be to prevent accidents and injury to health arising out of, linked with or occurring in the course of work, by minimizing, so far as is reasonably practicable, the causes of hazards inherent in the working environment.
At present, 83 out of 187 ILO member countries have ratified the Occupational Safety and Health Convention, 1981 (No. 155), of which 4 are ASEAN member countries, namely, Malaysia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, the Republic of Singapore, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam.
Title: Statement of the 44th Cairns Group Ministerial Meeting
The cabinet approved the draft Statement of the 44th Cairns Group Ministerial Meeting. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Commerce may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Commerce is authorized to adopt the Statement. This is as proposed by Ministry of Commerce.
Gist
The Cairns Group is a coalition of 20 agricultural fair-trading countries (members), which together account for almost 30% of the world’s agricultural exports, aiming at achieving free and fair trade in agriculture that provides real and sustainable benefits for the developing world.
The 44th Cairns Group Ministerial Meeting will be held on June 2, 2025, in Paris, France. The statement will emphasize, among others, the importance of a multilateral trading system based on trade rules and compliance with trade rules under the WTO to maintain a stable and predictable trading system.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/96954