รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM expects strong tourism recovery to support long-term economic growth


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 8 มิถุนายน 2566
08/06/2566
พิมพ์
​PM expects strong tourism recovery to support long-term economic growth
​PM expects strong tourism recovery to support long-term economic growth
June 8, 2023, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that Tourism Authority of Thailand has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with Visa Worldwide Pte. Ltd. to promote Thai tourism in the international market under the 2023 Visit Thailand Year campaign. Cooperation frameworks prescribed under the MOU are: 1) CO-Event, 2) CO-Communication, 3) CO-Increase Number of Tourist, and 4) Value Added by VISA.
Implementations under the CO-Event framework include Amazing Thailand Grand Sale (ATGS) campaign, which is aimed to stimulate tourist spending and promote Thailand as world’s top 5 shopping destinations, and Health & Wellness Tourism event, to be promoted during March and September 2023. CO-Communication will highlight Thai products and tourism services through soft powers (5F- Food, Film, Festival, Fight and Fashion), where as CO-Increase Number of Tourist targets short-haul markets (i.e., China, Malaysia, India, South Korea, Singapore, and the CLMV countries). Value Added by VISA is aimed to stimulate Visa cardholders from overseas to visit Thailand and spend more on tourism products and services.
TAT is aiming to drive quality tourism to achieve revenue goal, rather than quantity goal, and targets 80% tourism recovery in 2023, comparing to 2019. The target for overall tourism revenue is 2.38 trillion Baht 2 from 25-30 million incoming tourists. According to TAT report, cumulative number of foreign tourists during January 1 and May 28, 2023 accounts for 10,448,481 persons, generating 431,599 million Baht.
The Government Spokesperson stated that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha thanked all concerned agencies for implementing the Government’s policy to recover national economy through tourism. With strong potential of Thailand as popular tourist destination in the Asia Pacific region, coupling with the Government’s strategies to promote tourism, Thai tourism industry is expected to recovered steadily and support the country's long-term economic growth.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/69054