รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Govt endorses 36 Smart cities in 25 provinces


วันอังคารที่ 22 สิงหาคม 2566
22/08/2566
พิมพ์
Govt endorses 36 Smart cities in 25 provinces
Govt endorses 36 Smart cities in 25 provinces
August 21, 2023, Deputy Government Spokesperson Rachada Dhanadirek disclosed that Prime
Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha has handed down a policy on the
development of smart cities. As of July 2023, the Government has endorsed 36 smart cities in
25 provinces, and plans to endorse another 15 cities by way of investment promotion from both
the public and private sectors, which is expected to draw over US$1.7 billion in investment.
According to the Deputy Government Spokesperson, the Government supports application of
digital technology in the development of smart cities in various dimensions, i.e., transport,
energy utilization, and infrastructure, with an aim to promote a more livable future, and elevate
people’s quality of life and safety. The Government has continued to implement its smart city
policy based on the following 5 development principles:
1. Identifying potential cities for the development of pilot smart cities
2. Reforming related laws
3. Creating administrative mechanisms for concrete development of smart cities
4. Advancing smart cities with R&amp;D and innovation
5. Supporting data collection, linkage, and utilization
The Thai Digital Economy Promotion Agency (DEPA), in collaboration with concerned public and
private agencies, will organize “Thailand Smart City Expo 2023” during November 22-24, 2023
at the Queen Sirikit National Convention Center to promote integrative development of smart
cities. Smart cities will be categorized into 7 technologies, namely, Smart Telecom, Smart
Energy, Smart Living, Smart Industry &amp; Retail, Smart Mobility, Smart Environment, and Smart
Healthcare. The event will feature technologies and innovations from 300 leading firms, which
would be beneficial for the development of smart cities.
The Deputy Government Spokesperson added that the Prime Minister’s policy on the
development of smart cities is in line with national development under the National strategies.
Technology and innovation will be adopted to promote better quality of life and environment,
and to enhance national competitiveness.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/71538