รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM meets with representatives of USABC


วันอังคารที่ 29 พฤศจิกายน 2565
พิมพ์
​PM meets with representatives of USABC
​PM meets with representatives of USABC
November 28, 2022, at 10.00 hrs, members of the U.S. - ASEAN Business Council (USABC) paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House. The Thai delegation at the meeting included Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Energy Supattanapong Punmeechaow, PM’s Secretary-General Distat Hotrakitya, and Permanent Secretary to Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The U.S. side was represented by U.S. Ambassador to Thailand H.E. Mr. Robert Godec, Mr. Ted Osius, USABC president, and U.S. businessmen from 43 leading firms in various fields of industry, e.g., energy, food and agriculture, public health, IT, financial management, etc. Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure to meet with the U.S. private sector and USABC members, who have long been Thailand’s friends and important economic partners. Today’s meeting would be a good opportunity to take forward major developments and accomplishments, especially after Thailand’s hosting of the APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting. The Prime Minister affirmed the Thai Government’s intent to cooperate and interact with private and business sectors.
Thailand has made considerable advancement for post-COVID-19 socio-economic recovery during the past year. Relations dynamism between Thailand and the U.S. has also continued to increase and progress. A number of tangible achievements and advancements have been made at the APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting, which includes post-COVID-19 Free Trade Area of the Asia- Pacific (FTAAP), resumption of connectivity, especially traveling and tourism, and promotion of inclusive and sustainable growth. Thailand also proposed the Bangkok Goals on the Bio-Circular-Green (BCG) Economy, and affirmed its commitment under the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework for Prosperity (IPEF) framework.
According to the Prime Minister, it is forecasted that Thai economy will grow by 2.7-3.2% this year. He emphasized Thailand’s readiness for new economic, trade and investment opportunities, and for further cooperation with the U.S. private sector to promote strong, balanced and inclusive economic growth. With the BCG economic model, business sector, especially the SMEs, will be able to leverage with technology and innovation, and push forward the country to become regional investment hub in technology and innovation, BCG, global talents, logistics for regional connectivity, and creative industry.
The Prime Minister took the occasion to propose 3 directions for the development of Thai economy in the Next Normal:
1. Promoting balanced economy: Thailand has placed importance on the climate change and green technology development, which is in line with the U.S.’s policy on 100 percent carbon pollution-free electricity. The Thai Government has pushed forward energy transition and green economic growth, and would be keen to receive the private sector’s support in elevating the country to become the region’s EV manufacturer, in enhancing knowledge, expertise, and technology to reduce GHG emission, and in increasing energy usage capacity, especially Carbon Capture, Utilization and Storage (CCUS) technology.
2. Promoting competitive economy: Thailand is ready to seek new trade opportunities and enhance national competitiveness to strengthen its supply chain. The Government strives to create an environment conducive to business operation in accordance with the proposal “Ten for Thailand” to promote the country as regional business, trade and investment hub.
3. Promoting value-based economy: Thailand continues to take forward transition to the digital economy through digital startups development, and investment promotion in digital industries.
The Prime Minister expressed hope that relations dynamism, and trade and investment cooperation between Thailand and the U.S. continues to flourish as the two countries are set to celebrate the 190th anniversary of diplomatic relations in 2023.
USABC president expressed pleasure to meet with the Prime Minister in person after having met through a hybrid meeting during the past two years. This group of USABC representatives is the largest group to make its annual visit to Thailand. The intention is to demonstrate USABC’s commitment to expand cooperation with the country as the organization has placed great importance on investing in the region, especially Thailand. This will also be an opportunity to celebrate the 190th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the two countries next year. He also praised the Prime Minister for successfully chairing the APEC 2022.
The U.S. Ambassador expressed appreciation for the warm welcome given to the group of USABC representatives, and commended long-standing relations and cooperation between Thailand and the U.S. at all levels. The U.S. Government would like to congratulate Thailand for its success in hosting APEC 2022, and pleased to be handed over APEC chairmanship in 2023. He also affirmed the U.S.’s commitment to continue reinforcing relations and cooperation with Thailand.
USABC representatives from 43 companies in 6 industries, then, introduced themselves and started sharing their thoughts and affirmation to continue their investment in Thailand. They also committed to support Thailand’s BCG economic model through responsible and environmental-friendly use of energy and products. The USABC representatives were of the view that Thailand has potential in becoming auto hub and medical hub, as well as investment hub in the areas of digital economy, tourism, and creative industry. They are ready to provide support on workers’ skill enhancement to accommodate future investment expansion.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/62100