รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Statement by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence


วันเสาร์ที่ 7 มิถุนายน 2568
Statement by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence
Statement by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence
On 5 June 2025, I had a bilateral discussion with the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of National Defence of the Kingdom of Cambodia to exchange views concerning the border situation in the Aranyaprathet District, Sa Kaeo Province, Kingdom of Thailand.
Subsequent to the meeting, certain information disseminated to the public has been found to be inconsistent with the substance of the discussion. It is deeply regrettable that the constructive proposals, which could have paved the way for de-escalation and the promotion of peace, have been rejected. Furthermore, there has been a reinforcement of military presence, which has exacerbated tensions along the border. Consequently, the Royal Thai Government has deemed it necessary to implement additional measures and to reinforce our military posture accordingly.
I wish to reiterate the following positions of the Royal Thai Government, which I have discussed with the Prime Minister:
1. Thailand unequivocally rejects any violation of its sovereignty under any circumstances and stands resolute in its determination to defend and safeguard the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Kingdom.
2. I reaffirm my full support for the Royal Thai Armed Forces in the execution of their duties and extend my profound encouragement to all military personnel currently engaged in the defence of our homeland. I emphasize that all actions undertaken by the Thai side shall be guided by the paramount considerations of protecting the lives, safety, and well-being of the Thai people residing in border areas, as well as the welfare of the military personnel selflessly performing their duties.
3. The Royal Thai Government maintains its longstanding position of non-acceptance of the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice (ICJ) since 1960 and reiterates its firm commitment to resolving all boundary-related issues through bilateral negotiations in accordance with the 2000 Memorandum of Understanding (MOU), to which both parties have previously acceded. We further reaffirm that the Joint Boundary Commission (JBC) should serve as the principal mechanism for seeking a peaceful and amicable resolution at the earliest opportunity.
4. Thailand reaffirms its prior position that both sides should withdraw their forces to the original positions as maintained in 2024, in order to reduce tensions and prevent any further escalation.
In conclusion, I wish to state unequivocally that I have never condoned, and will not condone, any act of encroachment upon the sovereignty of Thailand. The Royal Thai Government, together with the Royal Thai Armed Forces, stands unwaveringly prepared to defend and uphold the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Kingdom by all means necessary.
Phumtham Wechayachai
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence
Kingdom of Thailand
7 June 2025, 07:00 hrs.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/97224