รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on December 4, 2023


วันอังคารที่ 12 ธันวาคม 2566
12/12/2566
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on December 4, 2023
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Project to support cutting of quality fresh sugarcane to reduce PM2.5
The cabinet approved the project to support cutting of quality fresh sugarcane to reduce PM2.5, as proposed by Ministry of Industry, with the budget framework of 7,990.60 million Baht.
Gist
The project to support cutting of quality fresh sugarcane to reduce PM2.5 will be implemented by Ministry of Industry to encourage sugarcane farmers to harvest fresh sugarcane (harvesting season of 2022/2023) instead of burning (Some farmers burn sugarcane crops before harvest to remove the leaves and tops of the sugarcane plant leaving only the sugar-bearing stalk to be harvested) which would generate PM2.5 particulates. The farmers who harvest and deliver quality fresh sugarcane to the factories will be given an incentive of up to 120 Baht/ton. This measure is one of the Government’s attempts to tackle PM2.5 particulates.
Title: Budget allocation strategy for fiscal year 2025
The cabinet approved budget allocation strategy for fiscal year 2025, as proposed by the Revenue Department. This will be the guideline for receiving agencies to draft their budget expenditure for FY 2025 which will later be submitted to the Revenue Department, and, consequently, the cabinet for approval.
Gist
Strategy for the FY 2025 budget allocation is developed to be in harmony with the National Strategy (2018 - 2037). The FY 2025 budget allocation strategy consists of 6 strategies:
Strategy 1 : National security
Strategy 2 : Development of competitiveness
Strategy 3 : Human potentials development and reinforcement
Strategy 4 : Creation of social opportunities and equality
Strategy 5 : Creation of growth on the environmental - friendly quality of life
Strategy 6 : Realignment for balance and development
Strategy 6 : Realignment for balance and development of administrative system of the public sector
Title: Guarding and protecting rights of the elderly project (Northeastern region)
The cabinet approved in principle the guarding and protecting rights of the elderly project (Northeastern region) for the total budget framework of 359,352,000 Baht to take care of the elderlies in an inclusive manner and ensure their quality of life and wellbeing. This is as proposed by Ministry of Social Development and Human Security.
Gist
Guarding and protecting rights of the elderly project (Northeastern region) is aimed to promote capacity building of the elderly caregivers, and protection of the elderly rights in 5 dimensions, namely, healthcare, socio-economic dimensions, environment, and technology.
The number of targeted people amounts to 4,053,610, comprising 2 caregivers/community (322 communities) and 3,188,077 health-screened elderlies. Areas of implementation will be 20 provinces in the Northeast, i.e., Kalasin, Khon Kaen, Chaiyaphum, Nakhon Phanom, Nakhon Ratchasima, Beung Kan, Burirum, Maha Sarakham, Mukdaharn, Yasothorn, Roi Et, Loei, Si Saket, Sakon Nakhon, Surin, Nong Khai, Nong Bua Lamphu, Amnat Charoen, Udon Thani, and Ubon Ratchathani.
Title: Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR)
The cabinet approved Thailand’s pledge in support of the 75th Anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), which is to be announced on December 11, 2023, as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
Gist
The Prime Minister delegated Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs to announce Thailand’s pledge in support of the 75th Anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) via a teleconference on December 11, 2023. On December 12, 2023, the Prime Minister will deliver a statement to launch related high-level activities in Bangkok. According to Thailand’s pledge in support of the 75th Anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), the country commits to further strengthen national human rights infrastructure, push forward its obligation on human rights, upgrade quality and ensure equal access to health services, and conduct human rights training to government officials and all concerned sectors, among others.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/75955