รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on October 1, 2024.


วันศุกร์ที่ 11 ตุลาคม 2567
11/10/2567
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on October 1, 2024.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Request for extension of short-term line of credit of the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT)
The cabinet approved the extension of short-term line of credit of the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (30 billion Baht/year) for another 3 years from November 11, 2024 onward. EGAT is to enter into a loan agreement with financial institutions that offer the lowest cost model based on market interest rates.
Gist
EGAT’s existing short-term line of credit has expired on September 11, 2024. However, EGAT still needs the loan to accommodate liquidity management for EGAT's operations and to prevent risk from liquidity shortage.
Title: Transfer of management responsibilities of Tak Airport
The cabinet approved the proposal of Ministry of Transport for the Department of Airports to transfer management responsibilities of Tak Airport to the Department of Royal Rainmaking and Agricultural Aviation. The two Departments and the Treasury Department shall proceed according to related laws and regulations.
Gist
Department of Royal Rainmaking and Agricultural Aviation has requested for the transfer of management responsibilities in order to make the airport the Northern Royal Rainmaking Operations Center. The transfer will not affect passenger services as there are no commercial airlines in service at the Tak Airport. In 2020, the Department of Royal Rainmaking and Agricultural Aviation has established the Northern Royal Rainmaking Operations Center in Tak Province, using the Tak Airport's area to tackle drought, wildfire, and PM2.5 particulates in the Northern areas.
Title: Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in Projects under the Mekong-Lancang Cooperation Special Fund for the Year 2023 between Ministry of Interior and the Embassy of the People's Republic of China in Thailand
The cabinet approved the draft Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on Cooperation in Projects under the Mekong-Lancang Cooperation Special Fund for the Year 2023 between Ministry of Interior and the Embassy of the People's Republic of China in Thailand. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Interior may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Permanent Secretary to Ministry of Interior or a representative is authorized as signatory of the MOU.
Gist
Ministry of Interior has proposed for financial support from the Mekong-Lancang Cooperation Special Fund for the project on “Frontier public health personnel capacity development for preparedness future severe human health threat in the region” for the total budget of USD239,479. The project is aimed for capacity building of public health officials involved in controlling dangerous epidemics (e.g. COVID-19, monkeypox, MERS, etc.) through activities, such as exchanging information and experiences on the prevention and control of dangerous epidemics, and trainings.
Title: Agreement on Visa Exemption for Holders of Diplomatic and Official/Special Passports between the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Government of the State of Qatar
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Foreign Affairs:
Approved the drafting of Agreement on Exemption of Visa Requirements for Holders of Diplomatic and Official/Special Passports between the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Government of the State of Qatar
Authorized Minister of Foreign Affairs or a representative as signatory of the Agreement. Ministry of Foreign Affairs is to issue the Full Powers to the signatory
Ministry of Foreign Affairs is to proceed according to the enforcement of the draft Agreement
Should there be an amendment in parts that are not against the principles approved by the cabinet, Ministry of I Foreign Affairs may proceed and inform the cabinet later of the amendment
The Agreement will be signed during the 3rd Asia Cooperation Dialogue (ACD) Summit in Doha, State of Qatar (October 2-3, 2024). It prescribes visa exemption for holders of diplomatic passports, official passports and special passports between Thailand and Qatar for entering, transiting, staying in and leaving the territories of the other party for a maximum period of 90 days from the date of entry.
Title: Outcome document of the 3rd Asia Cooperation Dialogue (ACD) Summit in Doha
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Foreign Affairs:
Approved the Doha Declaration on Sports Diplomacy, which is the outcome document of the 3rd ACD Summit. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
Authorized the Prime Minister or a representative to adopt the Declaration together with leaders of other member states on October 3, 2024
Gist
The Doha Declaration on Sports Diplomacy demonstrates political will at the leadership level of the ACD member countries to drive diplomatic cooperation through sports to promote ACD as a forum for discussion and constructive solutions to geopolitical challenges and competitions.
Title: Establishment of the Consulate of the Kingdom of Cambodia in Songkhla Province
The cabinet approved the establishment of the Consulate of the Kingdom of Cambodia in Songkhla Province. The Consulate area covers 12 Southern provinces, namely, Songkhla, Krabi, Nakhon Si Thammarat, Trang, Phatthalung, Satun, Pattani, Yala, Narathiwat, Phuket, Phang Nga and Surat Thani provinces. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
The Consulate of the Kingdom of Cambodia in Songkhla Province will perform consular duties and provide protection to Cambodian fisherfolks in the southern part of Thailand. Establishment of the Consulate of the Kingdom of Cambodia will further strengthen relations between the two countries.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/89036