รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Govt Spokesperson: PM successfully represents Thailand at 44th and 45th ASEAN Summits 


วันศุกร์ที่ 11 ตุลาคม 2567
11/10/2567
พิมพ์
Govt Spokesperson: PM successfully represents Thailand at 44th and 45th ASEAN Summits
Govt Spokesperson: PM successfully represents Thailand at 44th and 45th ASEAN Summits
October 11, 2024, Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed that Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra has exuded positive image and successfully represented Thailand as one of the ASEAN leaders to attend the 44th and 45th ASEAN Summits in Lao PDR on October 9-11, 2024. During the first 2 days of the Summits, the Prime Minister attended 10 meetings in an effort to highlight Thailand’s position at the international stage, and to bring about prosperity to the country in all aspects.
At the 27th ASEAN-China Summit, the Prime Minister emphasized the importance of ASEAN-China relations as the region’s foundation for peace and prosperity. She also affirmed Thailand’s endorsement of economic integration, security cooperation, and people-to-people relations.
At the 25th ASEAN-ROK Summit, the Prime Minister proposed the 'ABC Vision' (Advanced Technology - Balanced development - Creative economy) in developing comprehensive strategic partnership between ASEAN and South Korea.
At the 27th ASEAN-Japan Summit, Thailand proposed inclusive strategic partnership in 3 areas, that is, digital, green energy, and innovation.
At the 27th ASEAN Plus Three (APT) Summit, Thailand highlighted 3 key issues that will enable East Asia to tackle current situations, namely, anti-transnational crime, food security and water resource management, and financial stability.
The Prime Minister had a bilateral meeting with President Yoon Suk Yeol of the Republic of Korea. The South Korean President commended Thailand for its establishment of Thailand Creative Culture Agency (THACCA) which promotes the country’s content and soft power industry as economic driver. He also affirmed South Korea’s readiness to cooperate with Thailand in various areas.
At the bilateral meeting with Mr. Klaus Schwab, founder of the World Economic Forum (WEF), Mr. Shwab extended an invitation for the Prime Minister to attend WEF Annual Meeting to be held in Davos, the Swiss Confederation next year to promote Thailand’s economic potentials in various aspects, such as infrastructure, food, etc.
The Prime Minister also met with the Right Honourable Justin Trudeau, Prime Minister of Canada, who commended Thailand’s Marriage Equality Act, and affirmed his country’s readiness to forge education and vocational cooperation with Thailand.
At the bilateral meeting with Malaysia, Prime Minister Dato’ Seri Anwar Ibrahim endorsed Thailand’s “Six Countries, One Destination” scheme to promote regional tourism and boost the Southern border economy as Malaysia now ranks first in terms of the number of foreign tourists visiting Thailand.
The Prime Minister met with H.E. Antony J. Blinken, U.S. Secretary of State, who commended Thailand’s proactive role as bridge builder between ASEAN and the U.S. to promote peace, stability, and prosperity at both regional and global levels. Thailand also affirmed its commitment to cooperate with the U.S. in all dimensions.
At the meeting with Chinese Prime Minister Li Qiang, the year 2025 was announced as “Golden Year of Friendship” to celebrate the 50th anniversary of diplomatic relations between Thailand and China. The two leaders also came to terms in holding the 7th Meeting of China-Thailand Joint Committee on Trade, Investment and Economy soon to expedite expansion of trade and investment opportunities between the two countries.
According to the Government Spokesperson, national leaders who have met the Prime Minister were confident that the Prime Minister would lead Thailand to stand out and to resume its leading role at the regional and global stage, as Thailand has full potential for trade and investment, and tourism. Thailand also strives to promote peace for the global community.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/89017