รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Thailand supports enhancing multi-stakeholder partnership for SDGs in ASEAN


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 21 กันยายน 2566
21/09/2566
พิมพ์
​Thailand supports enhancing multi-stakeholder partnership for SDGs in ASEAN
​Thailand supports enhancing multi-stakeholder partnership for SDGs in ASEAN
September 20, 2023, at 1315hrs (local time), at the UN Headquarters, New York City, U.S.A., Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin delivered the opening remarks at the ASEAN side event during the UNGA High-Level Week on “Fostering Partnership for Our Common Future: Enhancing Multi-Stakeholder Partnership for SDGs in ASEAN”. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of his remarks as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed sincere appreciation for the presence of Their Excellencies and everyone here, and a special thanks to the co-organizers, i.e., UNESCAP and ASEAN Centre for Sustainable Development Studies and Dialogue (ACSDSD), for their continued commitment to advance the sustainable development agenda.
Sustainable development is not only just a policy goal of the Thai government. It is one of key national priorities to promote a thriving economy. The Government aims to achieve this while preserving natural resources and fostering a society where no one is left behind. At the international level, Thailand will continue to play an active role as the ASEAN Coordinator for Sustainable Development Cooperation in fostering a more sustainable and resilient future.
At this halfway point to 2030, there is a need to accelerate our actions to tackle multiple and new challenges such as the climate crisis and deepening inequalities while pursuing the SDGs. The Global Goals are not mere milestones, but lifelines for millions on this planet. For ASEAN, financial constraints, technological gaps, and social disparities are but a few stumbling blocks that need to be addressed. Within this context, regional and international cooperation that forms the bedrock of effective multilateralism is the guiding light. ASEAN's collective efforts are vital to transform challenges into opportunities.
The Prime Minister took the opportunity to offer some thoughts on the way forward that is in line with ASEAN Community Vision 2045:
First, we need to ensure that our economic growth goes hand in hand with sustainable development in support of global efforts to address the impacts of climate change. ASEAN would need a roadmap that guides the pursuit of green growth in a holistic and coordinated manner. Thailand will proactively work with ASEAN colleagues to develop an "ASEAN Green Agenda" as the key pillar of our sustainable economic development.
Second, ASEAN should create a robust foundation for greener industries. Thailand stands ready to work with ASEAN colleagues and external partners towards initiatives that promote smart agriculture, expedite energy transition, pursue carbon neutrality, and invigorate green finance. This will not only sustain ASEAN’s resilience but also enhance the quality of life for people in the region.
Third, ASEAN is a dynamic region that can provide a platform for innovations and technologies. This creates new opportunities for investments in relevant sectors of green economy. For example, the ASEAN EV market is expected to grow more than 32% in the next 5 years. With abundant resources and potential, ASEAN can be a hub of sustainable manufacturing and a vital link in the sustainable global supply chain.
In closing, the Prime Minister stressed that only when governments, civil society, academia, and the private sector join forces can the real change be made, and invited everyone to work with Thailand and ASEAN in advancing sustainable development, for it to become a legacy we leave behind for the future generations to follow.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/72430