รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM delivers statement at United Nations Climate Ambition Summit


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 21 กันยายน 2566
​PM delivers statement at United Nations Climate Ambition Summit
​PM delivers statement at United Nations Climate Ambition Summit
September 20, 2023, at 10.59 hrs (local time), at the UN Headquarters, New York City, U.S.A., Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin delivered a statement at the United Nations Climate Ambition Summit during his attendance at the 78th Session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA78).
Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of his statement as follows:
According to the Prime Minister, he recently had the opportunity to meet with the farmers of Thailand and heard first-hand the devastating impact of climate change on their livelihood. He was of the view that the world needs to act now.
Thailand applauds the Secretary-General’s Acceleration Agenda which advocates bringing forward net-zero timelines to as close as possible to 2050, presenting energy transition plans including coal phase-out by 2040s, and preparing updated Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) for 2025 that are economy-wide with absolute emissions cuts.
Thailand aspires to work in partnership with stakeholders and the international community, taking into account the internal processes, adequate and enhanced access to technology development and financial resources and capacity building support.
At the UNFCCC COP 26, Thailand made an ambitious and important pledge to accelerate the country’s climate targets to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050, and raise Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC) goal from 20% to 40% by 2030. This pledge has been transformed into concrete action as reflected in the country’s Long-term Low Greenhouse Gas Emissions Development Strategy. Since then, Thailand has been working hard to achieve this extremely important mission.
The Thai Government used these ambitious targets to rewrite National Energy Plan by focusing on energy efficiency, making a shift in the transport sector, increasing domestic electric vehicles production, and preparing to phase-out coal generated power.
Thailand has implemented pilot projects of sustainable agronomy to transform agricultural practices to lower emission and to be more sustainable. With the success of these projects, the Government is now ready to scale up. This will reduce vulnerability to climate change and enhance the well-being of farmers nationwide.
According to the Prime Minister, the Government also plans to increase the share of renewable energy, implement Utility Green Tariff program, support the usage of solar rooftop and net-metering to incentivize the production of clean energy even more. Thailand aims to increase green area to cover 55% of the total land area by 2037.
Thailand is actively promoting Green Finance Mechanism through the issuance of Sustainability Bond, through which 12.5 billion USD have currently been raised to fund multiple projects. Next year, the Government plans to issue another set of Sustainability Linked Bonds to stimulate the growth of Green Bond market and to ensure that all entities involved are properly incentivized to achieve the country’s sustainability goals.
The Prime Minister emphasized that Thailand is taking the issue of global climate change very seriously. The Department of Climate Change and Environment has recently been established to specifically respond to the impacts arising from climate change, and to implement the country’s enhanced commitments. At the same time, the Thai Government is pushing ahead with the climate change act to regulate mandatory for climate adaptation in all sectors.
In closing, the Prime Minister underscored that solution from every country in the world. Thailand is doing its part and remains firmly committed to achieving the goal and overcome this crisis.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/72420