รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Statement by His Excellency Mr. Srettha Thavisin Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand at the High-level Dialogue on Financing for Development, 20 September 2023


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 21 กันยายน 2566
Statement by His Excellency Mr. Srettha Thavisin Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand at the High-level Dialogue on Financing for Development, 20 September 2023
Statement
by His Excellency Mr. Srettha Thavisin
Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand
at the High-level Dialogue on Financing for Development
20 September 2023, United Nations Headquarters, New York
Madam Moderator,
Excellencies,
I commend the convening of today’s dialogue. We strongly believe the urgent need to invest more in our people and planet, and that financing for development is crucial for the success of SDG attainment.
We must reform the international financial architecture to mobilize financing for development in a comprehensive manner. In this regard, let me highlight three important aspects.
First, on participation and governance,developing countries should play a greater role in international financial institutions. This should be aimed at improving fiscal sustainability to better tackle the high cost of debt and rising risks of debt distress.
To this end, the Thai Government and UNESCAP will co-organize “Sustainable Finance: Bridging the Gap in Asia and the Pacific” on 2 October 2023 in Bangkok, which will produce concrete policy recommendations to promote a more comprehensive and inclusive financing for development in the region.
We support the expansion of lending capacity of multilateral development banks (MDBs) to better leverage private capital for development projects.
Second, the reform should enhance international cooperation for the advancement of digital technology and economy. The focus must be on reducing transaction costs while expanding financial inclusion. Developing nations should play an enhanced role in shaping global policies on data security, transparency and technology governance.
Third, climate protection, development and poverty reduction must go hand-in-hand. The reform should address increasing demand for investment in and financing of climate-friendly, sustainable projects and promote cooperation and coherence in international undertakings in sustainable finance.
In this regard, Thailand has continued to issue ‘sustainability bonds’ and other ESG-related instruments in the capital market since 2020. We have raised 12.5 billion USD through this mechanism to fund multiple sustainability-related projects. Next year, we will issue Sustainability Linked Bonds to to incentivized all stakeholders towards sustainability.
Lastly, we have also developed the ‘Thailand Taxonomy’ framework, ensuringe that every dollar raised is truly used for the betterment of sustainable developments, now and in the future.
Excellencies,
I hope that novel ideas and proposals will be reflected and further elaborated during this UNGA and future meetings. I also reaffirm our readiness to support international collaboration and to be an active participant in policy conversations on this issue.
Thank you.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/72424