รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Statement by H.E. Mr. Srettha Thavisin Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand at United Nations Climate Ambition Summit  20 September 2023, United Nations Headquarters, New York


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 21 กันยายน 2566
Statement by H.E. Mr. Srettha Thavisin Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand at United Nations Climate Ambition Summit  20 September 2023, United Nations Headquarters, New York
Statement
by H.E. Mr. Srettha Thavisin
Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand
at United Nations Climate Ambition Summit
20 September 2023, United Nations Headquarters, New York
Mr. Secretary-General,
Excellencies,
I recently met with Thai farmers and learnt of the devastating impacts of climate change on their livelihood. Now we need to accelerate our actions.
Thailand applauds the Secretary-General’s Acceleration Agenda in bringing forward net-zero timelines closer to 2050, making energy transition including coal phase-out by 2040s, and updating NDCs for 2025 with absolute emissions cuts.
Thailand shares the same aspirations and will work with all stakeholders to enhance technology development, financial resources, and capacity building.
At COP26, we pledged to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. We have also raised our NDCs goal from 20% to 40% by 2030. We have been working tirelessly to transform this pledge into concrete action as evident in our Long-term Low Greenhouse Gas Emissions Development Strategy.
Mr. Secretary-General,
We have realigned our National Energy Plan shifting the focus to energy efficiency, making a change in the transport sector, increasing EVs production, and preparing to phase-out coal generated power.
With the concept of sustainable agronomy, we have transformed our agricultural practices to lower emission. Pilot projects have proven successful, and are ready to be scaled up. This has reduced climate change vulnerability and enhanced farmers’s well-being nationwide.
Since taking office, my government wasted no time in implementing a plan to increase the share of renewable energy, implement Utility Green Tariff program, support the usage of solar rooftop and net-metering to incentivize the production of clean energy. Thailand is determined to increase green area to cover 55% of the total land area by 2037.
We are proactively adopting Green Finance Mechanism. We have raised 12.5 billion US dollars through the issuance of Sustainability Bond to fund multiple sustainability projects. Soon, we will issue Sustainability Linked Bonds to stimulate the growth of Green Bond market, ensuring organizations are incentivized to achieve SDGs.
Mr. Secretary-General,
Climate change is a top priority for my administration. We have established the Department of Climate Change and Environment to respond to the adverse effects of climate change, and to implement our commitments. Soon, we will pass the Climate Change Act to regulate mandatory greenhouse gas emission.
Thailand is doing our utmost to overcome this crisis, in partnership with all our friends. I insist that the time to act is now.
Thank you.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/72421