รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM: Thailand ready to promote strategic partnership and become regional hub


วันศุกร์ที่ 22 พฤศจิกายน 2567
22/11/2567
พิมพ์
​PM: Thailand ready to promote strategic partnership and become regional hub
​PM: Thailand ready to promote strategic partnership and become regional hub
November 21, 2024, at 1240hrs, at The Ritz Carlton, One Bangkok, at the 22nd Forbes Global CEO Conference, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra joined a one-on-one conversation with Ms. Moira Forbes, Executive Vice President of Forbes Media LLC and President and Publisher of ForbesWoman. Participating in the event were over 400 private sector executives, entrepreneurs, and leading investors across the globe. Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed gist as follows:
The Prime Minister revealed Thailand's commitment to promote infrastructure development and strengthen the country's economy through short-, medium- and long-term measures in a bid to increase competitiveness and facilitate businesses and travel. Cooperation with the private sector is also important, especially the cooperation in key industries, e.g., digital economy, connectivity, and household / SME debt restructuring. Recently, Amazon, Google and Microsoft have announced major investments in cloud, data centers, and AI infrastructure in Thailand. The Thai Government is also ready to implement policies and measures to facilitate their investments.
Thailand stands ready to forge strategic partnership. With its strategic location, the country could be the hub of ASEAN for connectivity creation. The country’s accommodative infrastructure, food security, and capable personnel will help enhance Thailand’s partnership for the region’s long-term growth. Additionally, Thailand’s neutrality and resilience have been recognized and have boosted confidence of investors across the world.
According to the Prime Minister, so far, Thailand has been successful in attracting investment from global technology giants, with BOI’s investment promotion schemes to promote ease of doing business. The country also strives to invest in education and training to enhance workers’ skill and craftsmanship, and to prioritize soft power promotion. The Government envisions increase of cultural heritage’s economic value and promotion of creative industries in 14 areas through proactive foreign policy and upskilling/reskilling.
On trade and investment, Thailand has had cordial relations with both the U.S. and China, and has been cooperating with the two countries in the investment in such key areas as smart electronics, semiconductors, digital economy, AI, and creative industry. The Prime Minister also emphasized the Thai Government’s commitment on economic cooperation reinforcement.
The Prime Minister added that in order for Thailand to leap over the "middle income trap", the Government strives to promote investment in education, skills development, healthcare, and high technologies to create dynamic and sustainable economy, and attract foreign investments.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/90506