รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on March 3, 2024


วันศุกร์ที่ 15 มีนาคม 2567
15/03/2567
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on March 3, 2024
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Alcoholic Beverage Control Act (No. …), B.E. ...
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Alcoholic Beverage Control Act (No. …), B.E. ..., as proposed by Ministry of Public Health.
Gist
This is a revision of the current Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, under which some provisions are now out of date. Provisions amended include the definitions of “Alcoholic Beverage” and “Marketing communication”. Provisions on the definition of “People who have problems from consuming alcoholic beverages” and on prohibition of alcoholic beverage consumption at places for alcoholic beverage selling are also added to prevent selling alcoholic beverages during prohibited periods.
The cabinet ordered Office of Council of State to consider balances of health and economic stimulation in their scrutiny of the draft Act.
Title: Instrument of Extension of the Memorandum of Understanding on the ASEAN Power Grid (IOE of APG MOU)
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Energy:
Approved the Instrument of Extension of the Memorandum of Understanding on the ASEAN Power Grid (IOE of APG MOU). Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, nor against the principle approved by the cabinet, Ministry of Energy may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet for approval.
Approved Minister of Energy or a representative as signatory of the IOE of APG MOU
Approved for Ministry of Foreign Affairs to issue the Full Powers to Minister of Energy or a representative who is the signatory of the IOE of APG MOU
Gist
Instrument of Extension of the Memorandum of Understanding on the ASEAN Power Grid (IOE of APG MOU) prescribes extension of the MOU which will end on March 19, 2024. All ASEAN member countries must sign the document before the end date. The Memorandum of Understanding on the ASEAN Power Grid is aimed to create economic benefits and opportunities for power exchange and trade amongst the member countries. The MOU will be extended until December 31, 2025.
Title: Request for approval of outcome documents of ASEAN - Australia Special Summit to Commemorate the 50th Anniversary of ASEAN - Australia Dialogue Relations
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Foreign Affairs:
Two outcome documents of ASEAN - Australia Special Summit to Commemorate the 50th Anniversary of ASEAN - Australia Dialogue Relations:
ASEAN-Australia Leaders' Vision Statement - Partners for Peace and Prosperity
The Melbourne Declaration – A Partnership for the Future
Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet
Approved for the Prime Minister or a representative to adopt the two documents during the ASEAN - Australia Special Summit on March 6, 2024 in Melbourne, Australia
Gist
ASEAN-Australia Leaders' Vision Statement - Partners for Peace and Prosperity reaffirms steadfast commitment between the two parties to a Comprehensive Strategic Partnership that is substantive, meaningful and mutually beneficial, based on friendship, mutual trust, shared interests and a positive vision for the region’s future. ASEAN and Australia will continue to work together to contribute to the maintenance of peace and stability, as well as to enhance cooperation for sustainable development and prosperity in the region, particularly in support of the ASEAN community-building and integration process.
The Melbourne Declaration – A Partnership for the Future prescribes commitment between the two parties to safeguarding regional security and stability; deepening ties, and promoting sustainable and prosperous future.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/80368