รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on March 12, 2024


วันศุกร์ที่ 15 มีนาคม 2567
15/03/2567
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on March 12, 2024
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Revenue Taxes (No. …) B.E. … (Tax measure to promote)
The cabinet approved in principle the Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Revenue Taxes (No. …) B.E. … (Tax measure to promote fundraising through investment tokens), as proposed by Ministry of Finance, and ordered for the draft Royal Decree to be forwarded to Office of Council of State for further scrutiny.
Gist
In a bid to promote fundraising through investment tokens and to establish the country as an investment hub, the draft Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Revenue Taxes (No. …) B.E. … (Tax measure to promote fundraising through investment tokens) is approved. Under the draft Royal Decree, holders of investment tokens who have had the 15% capital gains tax withheld will not need to include the profits when calculating their income tax. The Royal Decree will take effect from January 1, 2024 onward.
Title: Draft Royal Decree on prorogation of second ordinary session of the National Assembly, B.E. …
The Cabinet approved in principle the Draft Royal Decree on prorogation of the second legislative ordinary session of the National Assembly, B.E. … (from April 10, 2024 onward), as proposed by the Cabinet Secretariat.
According to Section 121 of the Constitution of the Kingdom of Thailand, each year there shall be two ordinary sessions of the National Assembly, each of which shall last 120 days. The day on which the first sitting is held shall be considered the commencement date of the first annual ordinary session, and the commencement date of the second annual ordinary session shall be fixed by the House of Representatives.
In light of the above, the convocation and prorogation dates of the National Assembly are set as follows:
Year
First annual ordinary session (B.E.)
Second annual ordinary session (B.E.)
1
3 July 2023 – 30 October 2023
12 December 2023 – 9 April 2024
2
3 July 2024 – 30 October 2024
12 December 2024 – 9 April 2025
3
3 July 2025 – 30 October 2025
12 December 2025 – 9 April 2026
4
3 July 2026 – 30 October 2026
12 December 2026 – 9 April 2027
It is, therefore, appropriate for the second annual ordinary session of the National Assembly to be prorogued from April 10, 2024 (2567) onward.
Title: Outcome of study on “Education as a Solution to Poverty and Inequality Reduction: Case Studies of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Republic of Korea” by the Senate Standing Committee on Poverty and Inequality Reduction
The cabinet acknowledged outcome of study on “Education as a Solution to Poverty and Inequality Reduction: Case Studies of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Republic of Korea” conducted by the Senate Standing Committee on Poverty and Inequality Reduction. This is as proposed by Ministry of Education.
Gist
Under the study, points of suggestion of the Senate Standing Committee on Poverty and Inequality Reduction are as follows:
Civic education
Free, universal, and quality education
Equalization System
Educational management that takes into account solution to poverty and inequality reduction at the regional or local level
Teacher reform
Technology-based learning that is suitable with local environment
Quality education for reduction of poverty and inequality
Title: Request for budget for project on caring and protection of the rights of community elderlies (Southern region)
The cabinet approved in principle the project on caring and protection of the rights of community elderlies (Southern region) for the total amount of 163.231 million Baht. This is as proposed by Ministry of Social Development and Human Security.
Gist
The project is aimed to take care of and protect the rights of community elderlies in the South in all dimensions to ensure their quality of life. Protection mechanism will be created at a local level, covering the following 5 dimensions: health, social, economic, environment, and technology and innovation dimensions. The Project will be implemented in 14 provinces (151 districts), namely, Nakhon Si Thammarat, Songkhla, Surat Thani, Trang, Phatthalung, Narathiwat, Chumphon, Pattani, Yala, Krabi, Phuket, Phang-nga, Satun, and Ranong, and will cover 1.62 million elderly people.
Title: Reservations for accession to International Convention for the Protection of all Persons from Enforced Disappearance (ICPPED)
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Justice:
Approved preparation of the reservation on Article 42 (Any dispute between two or more States Parties concerning the interpretation or application of this Convention may be referred to the International Court of Justice) for accession to International Convention for the Protection of all Persons from Enforced Disappearance (ICPPED).
Assigned Ministry of Foreign Affairs to prepare the reservation on Article 42 as part of Thailand’s accession to International Convention for the Protection of all Persons from Enforced Disappearance (ICPPED).
The reason behind the approval of the reservation on Article 42 of ICPPED is to prevent the International Court of Justice to have jurisdiction over the sovereignty of Thailand. With the reservation on Article 42, the International Court of Justice will be unable to intervene and adjudicate disputes between Thailand and other member states.
Title: Request for approval of Ministerial Declaration on Accelerating and Strengthening the Global Response to Synthetic Drugs and Thailand’s membership to Global Coalition to Address Synthetic Drug Threats
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Justice:
Approved the essence of Ministerial Declaration on Accelerating and Strengthening the Global Response to Synthetic Drugs, and approved for Thailand (Minister of Justice) to adopt the Ministerial Declaration
Approved Ministry of Justice (Office of The Narcotics Control Board)’s membership in the Global Coalition to Address Synthetic Drug Threats on behalf of Thailand.
Assigned Ministry of Foreign Affairs to notify the cabinet’s approvals to the U.S. Department of States
Session 67 of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs will be held in Vienna, Republic of Austria during March 14-22, 2024. Discussion on membership in the Global Coalition to Address Synthetic Drug Threats on behalf of Thailand will take place during the 67CND on March 14-15, 2024.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/80369