รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Govt celebrates beginning of marriage equality in Thailand


วันพุธที่ 19 มิถุนายน 2567
19/06/2567
พิมพ์
Govt celebrates beginning of marriage equality in Thailand
Govt celebrates beginning of marriage equality in Thailand
June 18, 2024, at 1700hrs, at the Government House, an event was held to celebrate the beginning of marriage equality in Thailand, as the draft Act to amend Civil and Commercial Code (No....) B.E. ...., better known as Marriage Equality Bill, has been approved by the Senate.
At the event, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Commerce Phumtham Wechayachai welcomed the procession of marriage equality supporters who paraded from the Parliament to the Government House. Also participating were members of the cabinet, foreign ambassadors to Thailand, Bangkok Pride founder and members, celebrities, representatives of the public and private sectors, civil society, rainbow network and partners, and Thai and foreign press.
The event atmosphere was lively and joyful. Rainbow Street of Equality was set up with various activities, e.g., a workshop on equality-theme painting, photo and sticker booths simulating marriage certificate, flower arch, and various photo spots with “Love Wins” symbol. Giveaways, such as, “Love Wins” pins and sashes, are also available to celebrate this historic victory and the Government’s monumental achievement in pushing forward gender equality.
According to the Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke, Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin, with his advocacy on social equality, has placed great importance on the realization of Marriage Equality Bill. He recognizes love of all forms, and is well aware of the perseverance of LGBTQIAN+ community in fighting for the bill to be enacted. The Prime Minister congratulated the beginning of marriage equality in Thailand, and affirmed his commitment to push ahead other related bills. The Government celebrated marriage equality, as “Diversity” is not “Difference”.
Minister of Social Development and Human Security Varawut Silpa-archa also congratulated this historic accomplishment. He thanked the Senate, members of the Parliament, all concerned agencies, private sector and civil society, as well as all the Thai people. From now on LGBTQIAN+ couples can be legally married, and enjoy the same legal rights and benefits as those of husbands and wives, including approval of spouse’s medical treatment, inheritance of spouse’s assets, social security benefits, and criminal management, among others.
Thailand is the first jurisdiction in ASEAN and 3rd in Asia to allow same-sex marriage. The Government Spokesperson affirmed the Thai Government’s commitment to move forward without leaving anyone or any group behind. It strives to present Thailand as “Pride Friendly Destination”, and supports all related-activities. This is as part of the country’s effort to bid for the hosting of World Pride in 2030.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/84681