รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM wishes the media healthiness and happiness for the year 2025


วันพุธที่ 25 ธันวาคม 2567
25/12/2567
พิมพ์
PM wishes the media healthiness and happiness for the year 2025
PM wishes the media healthiness and happiness for the year 2025
December 24, 2024, at 1700hrs, at Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra, together with Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense Phumtham Wechayachai, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Transport Suriya Jungrungreangkit, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Digital Economy and Society Prasert Jantararuangtong, Minister Attached to the Prime Minister's Office Chousak Sirinil, Minister Attached to the Prime Minister's Office Jiraporn Sindhuprai, Secretary-General to the Prime Minister Prommin Lertsuridej, and Government Spokesperson and the deputies, attended a New Year party of the Government House press corps.
Representative of the Government House press corps commended the Prime Minister for her cordiality throughout the past 3 months and her willingness to answer all the press’s queries even though some questions may not be to her liking. He also wished the Prime Minister and the Government, on behalf of the Government House press corps, to work for the country and the people until the end of the Government’s term.
The Prime Minister was pleased to attend the thank you party for the Government House press corps which was held in appreciation for their hard work throughout the year. She also expressed understanding on the media’s questions as they are dutiful to the public. Throughout her premiership, she has gotten to be more acquainted with the press who have been friendly and respectful to the Government. The Prime Minister would like all the Government House press corps to work hard and present news in a constructive manner for the best interests of the country and people. She also wished for their healthiness and happiness.
The New Year party of the Government House press corps was held in a warm and friendly atmosphere under the theme “Merry Christmas”. The Prime Minister also tried some food at the feast.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/91721