รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Royal Command on Appointment of Ministers


วันเสาร์ที่ 7 กันยายน 2567
07/09/2567
พิมพ์
Royal Command on Appointment of Ministers
Royal Command on Appointment of Ministers
His Majesty Phra Bat Somdet Phra Poramenthra Ramathibodi Sisin Maha Vajiralongkorn Phra Vajira Klao Chao Yu Hua grants a royal command, which is published in the Royal Gazette on September 4, 2024, to endorse the new cabinet.
Royal Command
Appointment of Ministers
---------------------------------------
Phra Bat Somdet Phra Poramenthra Ramathibodi Sisin Maha Vajiralongkorn  Phra Vajira Klao Chao Yu Hua
Phra Bat Somdet Phra Poramenthra Ramathibodi Sisin Maha Vajiralongkorn Phra Vajira Klao Chao Yu Hua has graciously given a Royal Command for the announcement to be made that:
Pursuant to the Royal Command dated 16 August B.E. 2567 (2024) appointing Ms. Paetongtarn Shinawatra as Prime Minister, the Prime Minister has humbly selected council of ministers for the interests of state administration.
On the authority of Section 158 of the Constitution of the Kingdom of Thailand, His Majesty therefore graciously endorse appointment of ministers forthwith:
Mr. Phumtham Wechayachai   Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense
Mr. Suriya Jungrungreangkit   Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Transport
Mr. Anutin Charnvirakul          Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior
Mr. Pirapan Salirathavibhaga  Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Energy
Mr. Pichai Chunhavajira  Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance
Mr. Prasert Jantararuangtong  Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Digital Economy and Society
Mr. Chousak Sirinil   Minister Attached to Prime Minister’s Office
Ms. Jiraporn Sindhuprai  Minister Attached to Prime Minister’s Office
Gen. Nattaphon Narkphanit  Deputy Minister of Defense
Mr. Julapun Amornvivat  Deputy Minister of Finance
Mr. Paopoom Rojanasakul  Deputy Minister of Finance
Mr. Maris Sangiampongsa  Minister of Foreign Affairs
Mr. Sorawong Thienthong  Sorawong  Minister of Tourism and Sports
Mr. Varawut Silpa-archa  Minister of Social Development and Human Security
Ms. Supamas Isarabhakdi  Minister of Higher Education Science Research and
Innovation
Mrs. Narumon Pinyosinwat  Minister of Agriculture and Cooperatives
Mr. Itthi Sirilatthayakorn   Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Cooperatives
Mr. Akkhara Prompow   Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Cooperatives
Mrs. Manaporn Charoensri  Deputy Minister of Transport
Mr. Surapong Piyachote  Deputy Minister of Transport
Mr. Chalermchai Sri-on  Minister of Natural Resources and Environment
Mr. Pichai Naripthaphan  Minister of Commerce
Mr. Napintorn Srisanpang  Deputy Minister of Commerce
Mr. Suchart Chomklin   Deputy Minister of Commerce
Mr. Songsak Thongsri   Deputy Minister of Interior
Ms. Sabeeda Thaised    Deputy Minister of Interior
Ms. Theerarat Samrejvanich  Deputy Minister of Interior
Pol.Col. Tawee Sodsong  Minister of Justice
Mr. Phiphat Ratchakitprakarn  Minister of Labor
Ms. Sudawan Wangsuphakitkosol  Minister of Culture
Pol.Gen. Permpoon Chidchob  Minister of Education
Mr. Surasak Phancharoenworakul Deputy Minister of Education
Mr. Somsak Thepsutin   Minister of Public Health
Mr. Dej-is Khaothong   Deputy Minister of Public Health
Mr. Akanat Promphan   Minister of Industry
Announced on 3 September B.E. 2567, being the 9th year of the present Reign.
Countersigned by
Ms. Paetongtarn Shinawatra

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/87787