รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand – Brunei to work together in promoting ASEAN stability and prosperity


วันพุธที่ 11 ตุลาคม 2566
11/10/2566
พิมพ์
Thailand – Brunei to work together in promoting ASEAN stability and prosperity
Thailand – Brunei to work together in promoting ASEAN stability and prosperity
October 10, 2023, at 1400hrs (Brunei local time), at Istana Nurul Iman Palace, Bandar Seri
Begawan, Brunei Darussalam, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin attend an official welcoming ceremony before being granted a royal audience with His Majesty the Sultan of Brunei Darussalam. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed great honor to visit Brunei and to be granted an audience with
His Majesty. Thailand and Brunei have forged relations and friendship for over 39 years, both at the bilateral, regional, and multilateral levels. The Thai Government would also be honored should His Majesty decide to pay a royal visit to Thailand.
His Majesty the Sultan of Brunei Darussalam welcomed the Prime Minister and delegation, and congratulated his assumption of the position. This official visit of the Thai Prime Minister reflects close ties between the two countries, especially when the year 2024 will mark the 40 th anniversary of diplomatic relations.
Both parties also discussed issues of mutual interest:
Thailand and Brunei have continued to forge cordial relations and friendship, especially at the royal level which is the pillar of relations between the two countries. On occasion of the 40 th anniversary of diplomatic relations next year, the Prime Minister was of the view that both sides leverage existing bilateral mechanisms to further promote relations and cooperation.
Both the leaders also hoped to increase economic cooperation. The Prime Minister was pleased with the collaboration between Brunei Investment Agency (BIA), EXIM Thailand, and the Government Pension Fund to establish Thailand Prosperity Fund in 2002 with the initial capital of US$200 million. He also extended an invitation for BIA to consider increasing its investment in Thailand, especially in such potential areas as tourism and services, and infrastructure, etc.
The Prime Minister was glad with an increasing popularity of Thai products in Brunei. The Royal Thai Embassy in Bandar Seri Begawan would like to collaborate with Brunei’s concerned agencies to organize Thai product expos, and facilitate export of Thai products and food to Brunei.
Thailand would also like to become Brunei’s long-term partner in food security. With the
country’s strength in agriculture and food production, Thailand aims to expand export of Halal products, especially chicken meat and Hom Mali rice, to Brunei. The two countries also commit to reinforce energy cooperation.
Both the leaders came to terms on promotion of ASEAN stability and prosperity, on which
Thailand stands ready to work together with Brunei. The two countries also hoped for the more economic integration of ASEAN member states, and expressed concern over ongoing violence in the Middle East.
At the end of the meeting, the Prime Minister expressed appreciation toward the royal
benevolence for the fitting welcome. The Thai Government commits to cooperate and work
closely together with Bruneian counterpart for the best interest of the people of both countries.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/73220