รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM’s first overseas trip is a success


วันอังคารที่ 26 กันยายน 2566
26/09/2566
พิมพ์
PM’s first overseas trip is a success
PM’s first overseas trip is a success
September 24, 2023, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin gave a debriefing to the press on his visit to the U.S. to attend the 78th session of the United Nations General Assembly. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist as follows:
First of all, the Prime Minister thanked Ministry of Foreign Affairs, BOI, and all concerned officials for preparing and liaising his first visit abroad where he met with national leaders, heads of international organizations, and top executives of world’s leading companies, i.e., Tesla, Google, Microsoft, Citibank, JP Morgan, Estee lauder, etc. According to the Prime Minister, these firms, mainly technology and financial businesses, expressed interest in investing in Thailand, and the Prime Minister affirmed the country’s commitment to creating a more conducive investment climate for ease of doing business. He also met with representatives from the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) to discuss the possibility of the listing of Thai companies.
In his meeting with Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA) President, there was a talk about the possibility of Thailand hosting FIFA World Cup in 2032. The Prime Minister also disclosed about FIFA’s commitment to promote Thai grassroots football through an increase in its allocation of financial support to Thailand from US$250,000 to US$2 million per year.
This year UNGA78’s theme: ‘Rebuilding trust and reigniting global solidarity: Accelerating action on the 2030 Agenda and its Sustainable Development Goals towards peace, prosperity, progress and sustainability for all’, pronounce the impossibility to address global issues and attain the 2030 Agenda by one country alone. Solidarity is needed to achieve 17 Sustainable Development Goals. The Prime Minister also emphasized that climate crisis was one of the most urgent threats, in line with the Secretary-General’s statement that “the era of global warming has ended, and the era of global boiling point has arrived.” He also pledged, on behalf of Thailand, a democratic country with the King as the head of state, to advance human rights at home and abroad, promote Sufficiency Economy Philosophy (SEP) through civilized agriculture, and ensure better access to high-quality health services.
The Prime Minister added that his next overseas trip would be to attend the APEC Summit in San Francisco, U.S.A.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/72601