รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Thailand proposes priority areas for ASEAN - GCC cooperation under “3Ps” — Prosperity, People, and Planet


วันพุธที่ 28 พฤษภาคม 2568
28/05/2568
พิมพ์
​Thailand proposes priority areas for ASEAN - GCC cooperation under “3Ps” — Prosperity, People, and Planet
​Thailand proposes priority areas for ASEAN - GCC cooperation under “3Ps” — Prosperity, People, and Planet
May 27, 2025, at 1030hrs (Kuala Lumpur local time), Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed that Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra attended the 2nd ASEAN-Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) Summit with leaders and representatives from ASEAN and GCC member states, namely, Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa, Crown Prince and Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Bahrain; Sheikh Sabah Al Khalid Al Hamad Al Mubarak Al Sabah, Crown Prince and Deputy Emir of Kuwait; His Majesty Haitham bin Tariq, Sultan and Prime Minister of the Sultanate of Oman, Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman bin Jassim Al Thani, Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs of the State of Qatar, Prince Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, Crown Prince and Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, President of the United Arab Emirates and Ruler of Abu Dhabi.
The Prime Minister delivered an intervention at the 2nd ASEAN-Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) Summit, gist of which is as follows:
According to the Prime Minister, intensifying geo-political tensions and global supply chain fragmentation make inter-regional cooperation even more relevant. Partnership should be broadened, and shared prosperity must be pursued for mutual benefits. The Prime Minister, then, shared some thoughts on the priority areas for ASEAN - GCC cooperation under the “3Ps” — Prosperity, People, and Planet.
First, on Prosperity — by enhancing trade and investment cooperation, ASEAN and GCC can better cushion the impact of unexpected challenges. The recent shift in U.S. trade and tariff policies serves as a stark reminder of the importance of economic diversification and resilience. To achieve that, deeper engagement between ASEAN-GCC business communities should be fostered, particularly in halal industry, clean energy, and food security, as well as MSMES. Thailand fully supports regular ASEAN - GCC business forum, as well as a joint feasibility study on ASEAN - GCC FTA.
Second, on People — Thailand advocates for tangible ASEAN - GCC cooperation that promotes greater mobility and exchange of people between the two regions. This includes collaboration in tourism, health and wellness. Joint campaigns or events should be promoted with an aim to increase tourists between both regions.
Third, on Planet — both ASEAN and GCC are vulnerable to the devastating impacts of climate change, and must join forces in advancing a green agenda and green transition toward a more sustainable future. The exchange of technology and joint initiatives are essential. Thailand stands ready to facilitate dialogue between the ASEAN Centre for Sustainable Development Studies and Dialogue in Bangkok and the relevant GCC institutions. Potential areas of cooperation include green finance and energy transition.
On the situation in the Middle East, Thailand shares the global concern on the resumption of hostilities in Gaza, and urges all parties to continue their efforts to negotiate the ceasefire and hostage agreement as a basis for unimpeded humanitarian relief. Thailand remains resolutely in support of the two-State solution, and appreciates the diplomatic efforts that facilitated the safe return of 5 Thai nationals earlier in January this year.
In closing, the Prime Minister emphasized that ASEAN and GCC must translate aspirations into tangible cooperation for the benefit of common prosperity, people and planet, through the robust and full implementation of the Framework of Cooperation. Regular engagements and close dialogues are vital to these efforts.
The meeting also adopted 2 documents, namely, 1) Joint Statement of the Second Summit of ASEAN and GCC; and 2) Joint Declaration on Economic Cooperation between the ASEAN and GCC.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/96874