รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM proposes 3M guiding tenets for strengthening multilateral cooperation and forging new synergies between ASEAN, GCC, and China


วันพุธที่ 28 พฤษภาคม 2568
28/05/2568
พิมพ์
PM proposes 3M guiding tenets for strengthening multilateral cooperation and forging new synergies between ASEAN, GCC, and China
PM proposes 3M guiding tenets for strengthening multilateral cooperation and forging new synergies between ASEAN, GCC, and China
May 27, 2025, at 1545hrs (Kuala Lumpur local time), at the Kuala Lumpur Convention Center (KLCC), Malaysia, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra attended the ASEAN - GCC - China Summit which was participated by leaders of Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates; leaders of ASEAN member state and Chinese Prime Minister Li Qiang. Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed gist of the Prime Minister’s intervention as follows:
Thailand commends Malaysia for its leadership in convening this historic ASEAN - GCC - China Summit, and was of the view that ASEAN, the GCC, and China, representing nearly one-quarter of the world’s total GDP, have a unique opportunity to chart a new course of inclusive growth, amidst a complex and uncertain geo-political and geo-economic landscape. The Prime Minister highlighted 3M guiding tenets for economic partnership, that is Multilateralism, Mobility, and Mobilization.
First, Multilateralism. In the face of rising protectionism and unilateral trade measures, ASEAN, the GCC, and China share a common interest in upholding a robust multilateral trading system. A shared stance rooted in international law and principled norms is vital. The three regions must jointly uphold a rules-based, open and transparent multilateralism — the very foundation upon which trust and sustainable cooperation are built.
Second, Mobility — of goods, investments, services and human capital are the keys to maintaining economic resilience and absorbing shocks from economic uncertainty. Thailand strongly supports initiatives in digital trade, inter-regional e-commerce, as well as smart logistics and customs, and encourages joint efforts in human capital development through capacity-building, academic collaboration, and people-to-people exchanges among the 3 regions.
Third, Mobilization — of resources for sustainable development. For long-term resilience, the Prime Minister proposed that the three regions take a coordinated and targeted approach to mobilizing capital, technology, and innovation. Priority areas for this mobilization include: logistics infrastructure — with synergies from China’s Belt and Road Initiative, Halal industry, A.I., semiconductor, fintech and green finance, and clean energy.
In closing, the Prime Minister emphasized that today’s gathering was not only historic, but also visionary. Commitment to the shared prosperity — anchored in these “3Ms” — can serve as a model of constructive engagement and practical cooperation in the evolving global economic landscape.
The meeting also adopted one document: the Joint Statement Summit of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) and the People’s Republic of China.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/96890