รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with delegation of Chinese Enterprises Association in Thailand (CEA)


วันอังคารที่ 25 กุมภาพันธ์ 2568
25/02/2568
พิมพ์
PM meets with delegation of Chinese Enterprises Association in Thailand (CEA)
PM meets with delegation of Chinese Enterprises Association in Thailand (CEA)
February 21, 2025, at 1330hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Han Zhiqiang, Ambassador of the People's Republic of China to Thailand, led a delegation of Chinese Enterprises Association in Thailand (CEA) to pay a courtesy call on Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra. The delegation comprised 12 Chinese companies based in Thailand in 6 main sectors: Banking and Finances, Automotive Industry, Agricultural Industry, Technology and Energy, Electronics and Electrical Appliances, and Commerce and Investment Industry. Deputy Government Spokesperson Sasikarn Wattanachan disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed delight to meet with the delegation of Chinese business sector today, which coincides with the important occasion of the 50th anniversary of diplomatic relations between Thailand and China. Both countries have forged close and long-standing relations in all dimensions, as the saying goes, “Thai and Chinese are not far apart… We are brothers and sisters….”
In early February 2025, the Prime Minister paid an official visit to the People’s Republic of China, and had the opportunity to meet with Chinese political leaders to discuss the future of relations into the next 50 years. She also affirmed the Thai Government’s readiness to listen to suggestions and opinions from all sectors for mutual needs and interests.
The Chinese Ambassador expressed appreciation toward the Prime Minister for the meeting today, which reflected the Thai Government’s importance placed on Thailand-China friendship. The two countries have continued to advance relations and cooperation in all dimensions for success and wellbeing of both Thai and Chinese people. With strong confidence on Thailand’s potential in various aspects, the Chinese business sector commits to promote economic cooperation and to expand mutual trade and investment, especially to commemorate the 50th anniversary of diplomatic relations.
Mr. Li Xiaobo, president of the Chinese Enterprises Association in Thailand (CEA) added that CEA has continued to take part in the development of Thailand, both in terms of economic and industrial development, and technological advancement, generating revenues from export and contributing to the employment of Thai workforces. Today’s delegation comprises representatives of China’s leading firms in various sectors who are eager to drive forward Thailand-China trade and investment for mutual interest.
The two sides also exchanged views on trade and investment in Thailand, especially in modern industries, i.e., artificial intelligence (AI), semiconductors, and alternative energy. The Chinese delegation is ready to support Thailand’s development of technology and innovation ecosystem, to which the Prime Minister agreed, as this is relevant with the Government’s policy to promote future industries. She also emphasized the Government’s intent to promote ease of doing business. BOI is ready to facilitate the Chinese investors on the matter.
The Prime Minister also mentioned employment promotion and upskilling of workforces in line with each of the future industries to create opportunities. The Chinese delegation was pleased to support Thai workers and promote upskilling through trainings and knowledge sharing with relevant institutions.
Toward the end of the meeting, the Prime Minister affirmed the Government’s commitment to accelerate the development of investment ecosystem and related factors, i.e., developing human resources, and amending regulations for ease of doing business. It also stands ready to forge both socio-economic and cultural cooperation with China, and provide support to Chinese businesses in Thailand to further enhance relations between the two countries.
The Chinese Enterprises Association (CEA), established in 2001, operates under the leadership of the Chinese Embassy in Thailand. CEA acts as a bridge to promote economic and trade cooperation and exchanges between China and Thailand. As of now, CEA has 380 member companies, including 40 Fortune Global 500 companies and 74 Chinese top 500 companies.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/93770