รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM receives Claremont Graduate University’s President’s Award of Service


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 11 กรกฎาคม 2567
11/07/2567
พิมพ์
PM receives Claremont Graduate University’s President’s Award of Service
PM receives Claremont Graduate University’s President’s Award of Service
July 9, 2024, at 1400hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin was bestowed with the President’s Award of Service from Claremont Graduate University (California, U.S.), which is given to the University’s distinguished alumni. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed executives and representatives of Claremont Graduate University, and expressed great honor to be bestowed with the President’s Award of Service which reflects his advocacy to human rights and commitment to elevate quality of life and integrity of the Thai people, especially education development among the Thai youths. Claremont Graduate University’s President’s Award of Service is given to distinguished alumni whose public contributions promote the development of humanity and human rights. The Prime Minister is the first Thai alumni to receive the award.
Dr. Michelle Bligh, representative of Claremont Graduate University, expressed honor to meet with the Prime Minister today, and congratulated him, as the University alumni, for assuming the premiership. He is an inspiration to current Thai students at Claremont Graduate University. Dr. Bligh expressed appreciation toward the Prime Minister for paving ways for the future of others, and thanked him for supporting more Thai future leaders to study at the Claremont Graduate University.
She also commended Thailand's advancement in human rights, especially the approval of Marriage Equality Act, and provision of humanitarian assistance to Myanmar, among others. Thailand and the U.S. have forged close cooperation in science, culture, trade and investment, and diplomatic relations, and Dr. Bligh expressed confidence that the Prime Minister would take an important role in further tightening relations between the two countries.
Claremont Graduate University’s Thai alumni representative Watanyu Suksagniam expressed honor to meet with the Prime Minister today, and praised his leadership which truly reflects the University’s motto “Multa lumina lux una” or many lamps, one light. The University alumni take pride in the Prime Minister’s dedication, and stand ready to cooperate in increasing Thai students’ opportunity to further study at the Claremont Graduate University.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/85688