รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM meets with Chinese Ambassador to Thailand


วันศุกร์ที่ 18 ตุลาคม 2567
18/10/2567
พิมพ์
​PM meets with Chinese Ambassador to Thailand
​PM meets with Chinese Ambassador to Thailand
October 16, 2024, at 11.00 hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Bulling, Government House, H.E. Mr. Han Zhiqiang, the Ambassador of People’s Republic of China to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra. Following the meeting, the Chinese Ambassador, on behalf of the Chinese embassy to Thailand and Chinese-Thai Enterprises Association, donated 7.2 million baht to help flood-affected victims in the North. Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister was pleased to meet with the Ambassador. As next year marks the 50th anniversary of diplomatic relations between Thailand and China (Golden Year of Friendship), Thailand stands ready to work with China in tightening cooperation in the areas of mutual interest, especially trade and investment in new industries, and cultural cooperation. The Prime Minister also thanked the Chinese embassy to Thailand and Chinese-Thai Enterprises Association for donating 7.2 million baht to help flood-affected victims in northern Thailand, and expressed appreciation toward China for earlier reducing water volume released into the Mekong River.
The Chinese Ambassador congratulated the Prime Minister’s assumption of the position, and affirmed China’s readiness to reinforce cooperation, friendship, and reliable partnership. Last week, the Prime Minister and Prime Minister Li Qiang of China met during the ASEAN Summits in Lao PDR with successful discussion outcomes. The Ambassador also commended the Thai Government’s progress in promoting domestic economy. He was confident that next year would be meaningful to people of the two countries. China will closely collaborate with concerned agencies in Thailand on preparation of the celebrations.
Both parties also discussed issues of mutual interest, especially the commemoration of the 50th anniversary of diplomatic relations, on which Thailand and China agreed to organize various activities and cultural exchanges, starting from the end of the year until next year, i.e., promotion of Thai and Chinese soft powers, exchange of music culture (guzheng performance by Her Royal Highness Princess Chulabhorn to express cordial relations between the two countries.) The Ambassador informed the Prime Minister that on December 4, 2024, the Chinese Government would arrange the travel of the Buddha relics to be temporarily enshrined in Thailand for 73 days. Another couple of giant pandas will also be sent as animal ambassadors that link Thailand and China closer together.
On economic cooperation, both parties came to terms on increasing mutual trade value. The Prime Minister thanked China for allowing Thai fruits to be imported at Guan Lei Port, and extended her invitation for Chinese investors to make investment in Thailand, especially in the Data Center, EVs, and satellite launch base for 6G provision. The Ambassador expressed his pleasure to disseminate this information to Chinese firms in a bid to support Thailand’s new industries.
Both parties agreed on the exchange of official visits to tighten and further discuss economic cooperation. This would also be a good opportunity for the Prime Minister to meet with President Xi Jinping and Prime Minister Li Qiang of China. The Ambassador stands ready to liaise with relevant Thai agencies on the matter.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/89303