รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Thailand – New Zealand to elevate relations to “Strategic Partnership” in 2026


วันพุธที่ 17 เมษายน 2567
17/04/2567
พิมพ์
​Thailand – New Zealand to elevate relations to “Strategic Partnership” in 2026
​Thailand – New Zealand to elevate relations to “Strategic Partnership” in 2026
April 17, 2024, at 1140hrs, at the Inner Santi Maitri Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin and the Right Honourable Christopher Luxon, Prime Minister of New Zealand, witnessed the signing of the following MOUs between relevant Thai and New Zealand agencies:
1. Education Agreement between Thailand’s Office of the Basic Education Commission and New Zealand’s Massey University
2. Agreement on Supply, Repair and Maintenance Support between Thailand’s Thai Aviation Industries Co., Ltd. and New Zealand’s NZSkydive Limited
The signing ceremony was followed by a Joint Press Conference, on which Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed honor to welcome Prime Minister Luxon, together with his delegation. This marks the first visit of a New Zealand Prime Minister to our country in eleven years. Both the Prime Ministers had a comprehensive and constructive discussion, including the very fruitful exchange of views with New Zealand business delegation, with the shared objective to increase closer cooperation and expand partnership between Thailand and New Zealand. He also congratulated the signing of the two Agreements, and highlighted a few key outcomes of his meeting with the New Zealand Prime Minister.
First, the two Prime Ministers have agreed to elevate Thailand - New Zealand relations to a “Strategic Partnership” in 2026 or sooner, which will mark the 70th anniversary of the diplomatic relations. This will create the momentum for the two countries to further expand and deepen cooperation in all dimensions, and to realize the full potential of relations.
Second, Thailand and New Zealand commit to strengthen defense and security cooperation, especially the progress of the Thailand - New Zealand Defense Cooperation Plan. The two Prime Ministers also agreed to deepen cooperation to tackle transnational organized crimes, in particular on anti-human and drug trafficking, cyber-security, as well as counter-terrorism and violent extremism.
Third is to intensify economic cooperation through setting a goal to triple two-way trade by 2045. This will coincide with the Thailand - New Zealand Closer Economic Partnership (TNZCEP) which itself had tripled bilateral trade since its inception in 2005.
Cooperation on science, technology and innovation, including agri-tech, smart farming, food-tech, renewable energy, precision medicine and digital technology, will also be strengthened. The Prime Minister was also delighted to have met with the New Zealand business delegation, and hoped that this visit would open doors for future investments in Thailand, particularly in Thailand’s targeted industries and projects, including the Landbridge Project.
Fourth, both the two Prime Ministers welcomed the progress made to enhance people-to-people relations, as New Zealand is home to some 13,000 Thai nationals, and has always been a popular and enriching destination for Thai students and scholars. Collaboration on education and culture will be further reinforced.
On tourism, Thailand and New Zealand agreed to prioritize visa facilitation as well as resumption of direct flights to ensure that the goals of welcoming 100,000 New Zealanders to Thailand and 40,000 Thai tourists to New Zealand by next year are reached. The two Prime Ministers also agreed to explore opportunities to cooperate on sustainable, regenerative, and movie-induced tourism.
Lastly, both leaders also discussed the two countries’ roles in contributing to regional and international peace, stability, sustainability, and prosperity. Thailand welcomes New Zealand’s intention to become an ACMECS Development Partner, which aligns with New Zealand’s Strategic Partnership with ASEAN and its aspiration to become a Comprehensive Strategic Partner of ASEAN by 2025.
The Prime Minister also thanked Prime Minister Luxon for his willingness to look into how New Zealand may support Thailand on the latter’s request for OECD membership, and expressed appreciation to New Zealand for supporting Thailand’s candidature to the United Nations Human Rights Council for the term 2025-2027.
The two Prime Ministers also discussed other regional and global issues. On Myanmar, Thailand is monitoring the situation along the Thai - Myanmar border closely, and hopes that the Myanmar parties pursue dialogue towards a peaceful solution, consistent with ASEAN’s Five-point Consensus.
In closing, the Prime Minister hoped that this visit of Prime Minister Luxon marked the beginning of a new era of closer relations between Thailand and New Zealand, and expressed confidence that bilateral collaboration and the connection between people of the two countries would fortify friendship and partnership for many decades to come.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/81795