รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM participates in “Bangkok Pride Festival 2025” to affirm her advocacy to gender equality and rights


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 5 มิถุนายน 2568
05/06/2568
พิมพ์
PM participates in “Bangkok Pride Festival 2025” to affirm her advocacy to gender equality and rights
PM participates in “Bangkok Pride Festival 2025” to affirm her advocacy to gender equality and rights
June 1, 2025, at 1430hrs, at the National Stadium, Bangkok, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra attended the “Bangkok Pride Festival 2025”, which was held under the theme “Born This Way”, to celebrate and promote gender equality and identities. Also participating in the event were Minister Attached to the Prime Minister’s Office Jiraporn Sindhuprai, Minister of Tourism and Sports Sorawong Thienthong, Deputy Minister of Interior Theerarat Samrejvanich, Bangkok Pride organizing group, representatives of public and private agencies, civil society, pride partner networks and supporters, the media, artists and entertainers, altogether almost 300,000 participants. Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed gist as follows:
While attending the “Bangkok Pride Festival 2025” parades, the Prime Minister greeted LGBTQIAN+ participants and congratulated today’s gathering at the beginning of June, the Pride Month, to celebrate human equality and the right to choose.
The event featured 7 parades and the “Bangkok Pride Forum 2025” where such topics as LGBTQIAN+ health, rainbow economy, technology, environment, human rights, education and culture were discussed. The Prime Minister presented provincial ‘Pride’ flags to representatives of Pride City Networks in provinces across the country as the symbol for commencement of Pride Festivals, and affirmed her advocacy to “Born This Way” as everyone deserves equal rights, freedom, and identity.
This year marks an important step for Thailand as the first country in Southeast Asia to pass and promulgate marriage equality law which acknowledges and respects all forms of love and values. Marriage equality law is part of the Government’s effort to promote rights and equality in all dimensions. Other human rights protection bills are also on their way to ensure that everyone, regardless of gender, earns equal rights and is equally protected by laws.
The Prime Minister, then, joined others in the “Bangkok Pride Festival 2025” parade procession. The 7 parades are represented by each color of the rainbow and are titled as Born Again; Born to Be Loved; Born to Be Me; Born to Be Part of One; Born to Create & Inspire; Born to Heal Generations; and Born to Be Together.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/97136