รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM’s remarks at Opening Ceremony of 79th Session of ESCAP


วันจันทร์ที่ 15 พฤษภาคม 2566
15/05/2566
พิมพ์
PM’s remarks at Opening Ceremony of 79th Session of ESCAP
PM’s remarks at Opening Ceremony of 79th Session of ESCAP
May 15, 2023, at 10.20 hrs, at ESCAP Hall, United Nations Conference Center, Bangkok, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha delivered his remarks via a teleconference at the Opening Ceremony of the 79th Session of the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) under the theme “Accelerating climate action in Asia and the Pacific for sustainable development”. Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist as follows:
According to the Prime Minister, Thailand is well aware of the climate change as a common challenge for all countries. Many areas across the Asia and Pacific region have faced climate-related disasters that are becoming more frequent and more severe.  Climate change is hindering progress toward achieving the Sustainable Development Goals in the region. Therefore, climate action and regional cooperation need to be scaled up to strengthen capacities in responding and adapting to climate change. This would enhance the resilience of communities and countries, and in turn create an enabling ecosystem for balanced, sustainable and inclusive growth.
Thailand embraces the Sufficiency Economy Philosophy as guidance for the country’s development and climate action, which promotes resilience of communities. Furthermore, Nationally Determined Contributions and Long-Term Low Emissions Development Strategies (LT-LEDS) has been revised to meet the country’s climate targets to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050 and net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2065.  Thailand supports cooperation in combating climate change at the regional level which is key to solving this problem. The Prime Minister proposed three priorities to support climate action in the region:
First, ESCAP’s work should be in synergy with and complement other regional and sub-regional cooperation frameworks, such as the “Bangkok Goals on the Bio-Circular-Green Economy”, which aims to create a more balanced and environmentally-friendly economic growth, and help accelerate the implementation of the SDGs in tandem with climate action.
Second, science, technology and innovation should be leveraged in the climate actions. Thailand utilizes earth observation satellite to monitor greenhouse gas emissions in the forestry sector, as well as to identify droughts and hotspots to avert fires and transboundary haze pollution.  Thailand stands ready to elevate cooperation through mechanisms at all levels.
Third, health risk management and public health preparedness will help minimize and adapt to the impacts of climate change. Through harnessing its expertise, the ESCAP is in an ideal position to bolster the region’s strengths by enhancing the capacity of its Member States.
This year’s Commission Session is a good opportunity to reinforce regional cooperation on climate action, which is also a critical part of the SDGs, and outcomes from the session this week will be built upon at the SDG Summit and Climate Ambition Summit, during the 78th Session of the United Nations General Assembly this September so as to reflect locally-driven development approaches of countries and accelerate climate action in a concrete manner. In addition, Thailand presented its candidature to host the Specialized Expo 2028 in Phuket under the theme “Future of Life: Living in Harmony, Sharing Prosperity” to showcase practical solutions for sustainable development in Phuket, with a focus on eradicating social, public health and environmental disparities.
In closing, the Prime Minister commended ESCAP in promoting multi-stakeholder partnerships in the region. As host country and Member State of ESCAP, Thailand reaffirmed its support of the constructive efforts of the ESCAP. The Prime Minister also wished for the success of the 79th Commission Session, and expressed hope that the warm hospitality of the Thai people would impress all the participants during their stay.
The 79th Session of the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) is held as a hybrid session during May 15-19, 2023 under the theme: “Accelerating climate action in Asia and the Pacific for sustainable development”, and is chaired by Tongan Minister of Foreign Affairs.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/68201