รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM concerned over wellbeing of flood rescuers and volunteers


วันจันทร์ที่ 16 กันยายน 2567
16/09/2567
พิมพ์
PM concerned over wellbeing of flood rescuers and volunteers
PM concerned over wellbeing of flood rescuers and volunteers
September 15, 2024, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra expressed concern over rescuers and volunteers who have taken part in various missions, especially, rescuing people and animals, in flood-affected areas, and urged them to prioritize safety, exercise utmost caution in their operations, and have enough rest. She also thanked rescuers, volunteers, and all concerned personnel for the dedication, and commended their selflessness which has touched the heart of everyone. The Government has come up with a disaster response plan for risk areas and a rehabilitation plan for the affected areas where flood has begun to ease. These plans will be discussed at the cabinet meeting on Tuesday.
The Prime Minister also expressed concerned over people’s health, and urged them to strictly follow the advices of Ministry of Public Health in taking good care of themselves and family members. Diseases that often come with flooding include leptospirosis, athlete's foot, pink eye, and, especially, diarrhea. Ministry of Public Health strongly advises the people to wash hands with clean water and soap or alcohol every time after touching dirty water and before eating and after using the bathroom, and supervise young children not to play in flood water. They are also urged to eat clean, hot, freshly cooked food, and wear waterproof boots if there is a need to wade through flood water.
On flood situation in Chiang Rai, the Prime Minister was reported on the repair of water supply system (except in Mae Sai district) which was damaged by flooding in the province. Water services can now be resumed for local residents to clean up houses, whereas water for consumption should be supplied by today (September 16). As for water supply system in Mae Sai district, the Royal Thai Armed Forces has dispatched personnel to clear up sediments accumulated and aggregated over water treatment plant in the district. The plant should be fully restored and ready for services in 5-7 days.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/88032