รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM commends ‘One Million Families’ project which aims to empower grassroots economy


วันอังคารที่ 8 สิงหาคม 2566
08/08/2566
พิมพ์
​PM commends ‘One Million Families’ project which aims to empower grassroots economy
​PM commends ‘One Million Families’ project which aims to empower grassroots economy
August 8, 2023, at Santi Maitri Building, Government House, prior to the weekly cabinet meeting, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha was presented with and reported on the implementation progress of the ‘One Million Families’ project by Minister Attached to the Prime Minister’s Office Anucha Nakasai who is overseeing the National Village and Urban Community Fund (NVUCF). Deputy Government Spokesperson Ratchada Thanadirek disclosed gist as follows:
The Prime Minister was presented with products of the ‘One Million Families’ project, which is premium-grade beef and related products. He also commended the success of the project which aims to empower communities and grassroots economy, generate income, and create employment opportunities for the local people. After the briefing, the Prime Minister suggested that they seek academic and technical assistance on product processing, quality control, and cattle breeding to meet market demand. He also praised the idea of producing fabric from cow manure, and called on all concerned sides to make the most use of local materials for product manufacturing, and to leverage technologies to create new marketing channels.
The ‘One Million Families’ project is the Government’s initiative to empower communities, foster sustainable grassroots economic growth, and establish occupations and create income of the people in the agricultural sector through cattle farming. The cabinet made approval on March 14, 2023 to the project implementation and budget allocation of 5 billion Baht. The budget is loaned out to 100,000 NVUCF members at 50,000 Baht per household for a purchase of 2 cows per household. The loan will be managed by the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives (BAAC), and loan period is for 6 years. Under the ‘One Million Families’ project, the Government will subsidize loan interest (4%) for 4 years. Farmers who are NVUCF members have expressed keen interest in participating in the project.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/71062