รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Govt to organize TILOG-LogistiX 2023


วันอังคารที่ 8 สิงหาคม 2566
08/08/2566
พิมพ์
Govt to organize TILOG-LogistiX 2023
Govt to organize TILOG-LogistiX 2023
August 6, 2023, Deputy Government Spokesperson Ratchada Thanadirek disclosed that with the vision of Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha to develop globally-recognized national infrastructure and enhance national competitiveness, Ministry of Commerce’s Department of International Trade Promotion, in collaboration with RX Tradex Co., Ltd. and other private agencies, will organize Thailand International Logistics Fair “TILOG-LogistiX 2023” during August 17-19, 2023 at BITEC Bangna. This will be the most comprehensive exhibition on logistics service providers, intralogistics technologies and solutions for ASEAN+6, aiming to create network and promote business matching among domestic and international logistics service providers and customers.
TILOG – LOGISTIX 2023 will be organized under the theme: “Smart and Green Logistics for Sustainable Tomorrow”. The event will showcase Thailand’s potential as ASEAN’s logistics hub, and is aimed to create awareness among those in the logistics industry on the trend to move toward sustainability with smart and green technology. TILOG – LOGISTIX 2023 features exhibition of over 415 brands from 25 countries across the world, and is expected to receive over 9,000 participants. Business negotiation and matching, worth over 4 billion Baht, is also targeted during the event. Participants will also experience an end-to-end automated logistics line from packing, sorting, handling to transporting that will inspire the new gen of logistics business owners.
The Deputy Government Spokesperson added that the Government has implemented the 13th Thailand Logistics Development Action Plan (2023-2027) to leverage logistics system in promoting Thailand as regional and subregional trade gateway. The Action Plan comprises the following 5 development guidelines:
1. Developing infrastructure and facilities
2. Upgrading and adding value to the supply chain
3. Improving customs, import/export procedures, and logistics facilitations
4. Enhancing potential of Thai logistics service providers
5. Promoting research and innovation, and personnel development, and ensuring relevance with UN’s SDGs

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/71081