รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on December 17, 2024


วันอังคารที่ 24 ธันวาคม 2567
24/12/2567
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on December 17, 2024
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Royal Decree on Designation of Areas for Service Establishment Permission in Rayong Province (No. ..), B.E. ....
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on Designation of Areas for Service Establishment Permission in Rayong Province (No. ..), B.E. ...., as deliberated by Office of Council of State and as proposed by Ministry of Interior. Opinions of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, Ministry of Public Health, and Office of the National Economic and Social Development Council shall be taken for further consideration.
Gist
The draft Royal Decree on Designation of Areas for Service Establishment Permission in Rayong Province (No. ..), B.E. .... prescribes designation of additional areas in the Eastern Airport City (EECa), Ban Chang District, Rayong Province to be permitted for the setup of service establishments. The approval is made for ​​2,662 rai out of EECa’s total area of ​​6,500 rai to allow service establishments to be set up in a bid to better accommodate travelers and tourists and ensure orderliness of the EECa area, in line with the Government’s and the Eastern Special Development Zone Policy Committee’s policies.
Title: Draft Announcement of the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministry of Interior on quota of aliens allowed to obtain permanent residency in the Kingdom for the year B.E. ....
The cabinet approved the draft Announcement of the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministry of Interior on quota of aliens allowed to obtain permanent residency in the Kingdom for the year B.E. ...., as proposed by Ministry of Interior. Opinions of Ministry of Labor and the National Security Council shall be taken for further action.
Gist
The draft Announcement of the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministry of Interior on quota of aliens allowed to obtain permanent residency in the Kingdom for the year B.E. ....is issued in compliance with Section 40(1) of the Immigration Act B.E. 2522, which stipulates that the immigration quotas for alien taking up residency in the Kingdom shall be published from year to year which shall not be more than one hundred persons per year from each country. For stateless persons, the number shall not exceed fifty per year.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on exemption of vehicle tolls on Motorway No. 7 and Motorway No. 9 within the specified period (No. ...) B.E. .... (Exemption of vehicle tolls on Motorway during the 2025 New Year holidays)
The cabinet acknowledged the draft Ministerial Regulation on exemption of vehicle tolls on Motorway No. 7 and Motorway No. 9 within the specified period (No. ...) B.E. .... (Exemption of vehicle tolls on Motorway during the 2025 New Year holidays).
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on exemption of vehicle tolls on Motorway No. 7 and Motorway No. 9 within the specified period (No. ...) B.E. .... (Exemption of vehicle tolls on Motorway during the 2025 New Year holidays) prescribes exemption of tolls on Motorway No. 7, Bangkok - Ban Chang, Bangkok - Pattaya section, and Motorway No. 9, Bangkok Outer Ring Road (Kanchanaphisek Road), Phra Pradaeng - Bang Khae section, Phra Pradaeng - Bang Khun Thian Interchange section, and Bang Pa-in - Bang Phli section, from 0001 hrs. on Thursday, December 26, 2024 to 2400 hrs. on Thursday, January 2, 2025. This is to facilitate people’s traveling and alleviate traffic problem.
Title: Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code on Tax Exemption (No. ...) B.E. .... [Tax measures for donations to the Office of Knowledge Management and Development (Public Organization)]
The cabinet approved the following proposal of Ministry of Finance:
1. Approve in principle the draft Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code on Tax Exemption (No. ...) B.E. .... [Tax measures for donations to the Office of Knowledge Management and Development (Public Organization)]
2. Assigned Office of Knowledge Management and Development (Public Organization) to create awareness and understanding of the tax measures for donations to the organization
Gist
The draft Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code on Tax Exemption (No. ...) B.E. .... [Tax measures for donations to the Office of Knowledge Management and Development (Public Organization)] prescribes an exemption of personal income tax and juristic tax to allow a deduction of 2 times the amount of money or property donated through the Revenue Department’s e-donation system to Office of Knowledge Management and Development (Public Organization) during January 1, 2024 and December 31, 2026.
Title: Exemption of vehicle tolls on Burapha Withi Expressway and Kanchanaphisek Expressway (Bang Phli - Suksawat) during the 2025 New Year holidays
The cabinet acknowledged exemption of vehicle tolls on Burapha Withi Expressway and Kanchanaphisek Expressway (Bang Phli - Suksawat) during the 2025 New Year holidays, as proposed by Ministry of Transport.
Gist
This is the approval to exemption of tolls on Burapha Withi Expressway and Kanchanaphisek Expressway (Bang Phli - Suk Sawat) during the 2025 New Year holidays from December 26, 2024 at 0001 hrs. to January 2, 2025 at 2400 hrs., a total of 8 days. This is to facilitate people’s traveling and alleviate traffic problem.
Title: Request for approval of Thailand's candidacy for the UNESCO Executive Board during 2025 – 2029
The cabinet approved Thailand's candidacy for the UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization) Executive Board during 2025 – 2029, as proposed by Ministry of Education.
Gist
Thailand has been elected as member of UNESCO Executive Board for 5 terms (the most recent term was between 2019 and 2023 which expired in November 2023). Election of members of UNESCO Executive Board will be held at the 43rd session of the UNESCO General Conference in November 2025. Thailand’s candidacy for the Executive Board is a good opportunity to demonstrate to UNESCO member states the country’s readiness to continuously participate in the administration and implementation of UNESCO’s missions, projects and budgets. It will also promote Thailand’s role at the global stage of UNESCO, and to strengthen the country’s relations with member states to support the implementation of projects and activities under the UNESCO framework.
Title: Participation in the International Partnership for Blue Carbon (IPBC)
The cabinet approved Thailand’s participation in the International Partnership for Blue Carbon (IPBC), as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment.
Gist
According to Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, IPBC is an organization established from the resolution made at the 21st United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Conference of the Parties (UNFCCC COP) in Paris, France in 2015. It currently has more than 50 member countries. IPBC's vision is to protect, restore and sustainably manage marine and coastal resources linked to blue carbon ecosystems on a global scale.
Thailand’s participation in the IPBC will provide opportunities to access scientific and policy information on marine and coastal conservation and restoration linked to blue carbon concepts. The country will also have a chance to build international partnerships for the implementation and access to new projects, activities or initiatives, and to promote personnel development through sharing knowledge from experts in coastal science, policy and planning related to blue carbon.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/91697