รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with French Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs' special representative


วันอังคารที่ 13 พฤษภาคม 2568
13/05/2568
พิมพ์
PM meets with French Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs' special representative
PM meets with French Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs' special representative
May 8, 2025, at 1500hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Mr. François Corbin, French Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs' special representative for economic relations in the ASEAN region and Vice President of MEDEF International in charge of coordination in the ASEAN region, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra. Deputy Government Spokesperson Kharom Phonpornklang disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister stated that the Thai Government has placed importance on elevating cooperation with France in various areas. Thailand stands ready to provide support to foreign direct investments from France, especially in high technologies, i.e., semiconductors, artificial intelligence (AI), and data centers, which are future industries the Government strives to promote. At present, Thailand has forged close cooperation with world-renowned tech firms, be it, Google, Microsoft, and TikTok, which reflects global confidence on Thailand’s potential with its well-equipped infrastructure and logistics system. The Prime Minister also emphasized the Government’s policy to push forward soft power, particularly local culture, creativity, and image building, at the global level.
Mr. Corbin commended Thailand’s role at the global economic stage, its resource abundance and strategic location in Asia, the region with the highest economic growth in the world. The French Government is committed to promote cooperation with Thailand in all dimensions, especially in energy, logistics, and sustainable development, amidst the global economic volatility. He also marveled Thailand's potential in becoming Asia’s energy hub.
Both parties agreed to promote the private sector’s role in the development of future hi-tech/logistics/energy projects, and the elevation of strategic partnerships between Thailand and France. Thailand commits to advance tangible cooperation in the potential areas through a clear operational framework, whereas France affirmed continued cooperation with Thailand, especially knowledge transfer in logistics and transportation, and clean energy (e.g., clean energy, renewable energy, and nuclear energy) which require high expertise. Mr. Corbin also disclosed his country’s interest in becoming ASEAN’s partner for the development of ASEAN Power Grid (APG).
The Prime Minister mentioned cultural cooperation and national image building, as part of the soft power promotion, on which Thailand hopes to forge cooperation with international partners, and emphasized the Government’s priority on the development of creative industry which could drive national economy while enhancing national image. Mr. Corbin agreed and stated that Thailand and France share common values of humanitarianism and sustainable development. He also commended Thailand’s role in ASEAN, and reaffirmed his country’s readiness to work together with Thailand in expanding cooperation in all dimensions, both at the public and private sector levels.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/96290