รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Intervention as Delivered by H.E. Mr. Srettha Thavisin, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand at the ASEAN-GCC Riyadh Summit


วันศุกร์ที่ 20 ตุลาคม 2566
20/10/2566
พิมพ์
Intervention as Delivered by H.E. Mr. Srettha Thavisin, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand at the ASEAN-GCC Riyadh Summit
20 October 2023, Ritz-Carlton, Riyadh, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
Your Majesties,
Your Royal Highnesses,
Excellencies,
I sincerely thank Your Royal Highness Prince Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, Crown Prince and Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, for the warm welcome and hospitality.
This being a historic Summit, I wish to reaffirm Thailand’s commitment to further strengthen partnership between our two regions.
Our economic potential is vast — making up almost 6 per cent of the global GDP. I am optimistic that the ASEAN - GCC Framework of Cooperation that we will adopt today will further enhance our collaboration.
Nonetheless, we meet against the backdrop of common challenges and insecurities — be they human, food, energy, health or climate. I am sure that right now on top our minds is the event unfolding in the Gaza Strip and the surrounding areas.
ASEAN and GCC have developed ambitious visions that are sustainable and future-ready, with people at the centre, to tackle these challenges. Only through these shared visions can we achieve our common goals.
Our co-operation should be guided by “innovative partnership for sustainable future”. Allow me to highlight three areas of cooperation.
First, we support seamless trade and investment by reducing barriers. The establishment of ASEAN - GCC Business Forum to promote closer private sector ties should be seriously explored.
The negotiation of Thai - GCC FTA to further our current trade value of 40 billion dollars is crucial. We should task our officials to resume the feasibility study on ASEAN - GCC FTA.
As “Kitchen of the World”, Thailand is ready to share our best practices in agriculture and food innovation to ensure food security. We also seek co-operation with GCC on halal science and standardization.
Second, Thailand has adopted green growth and energy transition towards net-zero emission. To promote green and sustainable financing, we will issue additional sustainability linked bond next year, which we would welcome interested GCC colleagues to participate so as to achieve the SDGs together.
The ASEAN Centre for Sustainable Development Studies and Dialogue in Bangkok and GCC counterparts can work closely by exchanging best practices, especially on energy efficiency, clean energy, and electric vehicle ecosystem.
Lastly, on stronger people ties. ASEAN welcomes more GCC visitors. For Thailand, we wish to see the annual figure of 300,000 GCC tourists doubled in the next two years.
We will continue to enhance our hospitality services, including health and wellness tourism. Many Thai Muslims can speak Arabic, which will be useful in providing healthcare services for GCC nationals.
Thailand also stands ready to share our expertise in medical and wellness tourism and tourism management. We can work towards a visa free scheme as well as Open Sky connectivity between our two regions.
ASEAN - GCC partnership should be built on our common desire for peace, stability and prosperity. We would appreciate the GCC’s proactive role in resolving flashpoints through dialogue.
Thailand deplores the outbreak of violence resulting in casualties and fatalities including the death of 30 Thai nationals, disrupting regional and international peace and security.
I join my colleagues in calling on all parties to take immediate steps to bring about the end of violence and to seek peaceful resolution through negotiations and diplomatic means, on the basis of the two-State solution.
We call for the safe, immediate and unconditional return of all hostages and no more loss of life. Ultimately, we wish to see peace prevail.
The fruits of this Summit must be sustained and future-oriented through regular dialogues and engagement. Thailand will be ready to pursue future Leaders’ dialogue in advancing this partnership.
The two Secretariats should be tasked to concretely follow up what we discussed today.
Thank you.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/73585