รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on May 14, 2024. 


วันจันทร์ที่ 27 พฤษภาคม 2567
27/05/2567
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on May 14, 2024.
The cabinet met on May 14, 2024.
The cabinet met on May 14, 2024. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Progress report on implementation of “Save the Environment Ruamjai Pakdi Project” to celebrate His Majesty the King’s 6th cycle birthday anniversary (July 28, 2024)
The cabinet acknowledged the report of Ministry of Justice on the implementation of “Save the Environment Ruamjai Pakdi Project” to celebrate His Majesty the King’s 6th cycle birthday anniversary (July 28, 2024).
Gist
Following the cabinet’s resolution, dated February 20, 2024, to instruct all government agencies to ensure cleanliness of public spaces and environment, i.e., roads, pedestrians, parks, water sources, waste dumping areas, etc., for the decoration of lights, royal flags and symbols to celebrate His Majesty the King’s 6th cycle birthday anniversary on July 28, 2024, Ministry of Justice (Department of Corrections) has collaborated with Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, BMA, and other concerned agencies to deploy prisoners (Department of Corrections), probationers (Probation Department), and juvenile offenders (Juvenile Observation and Protection Department) to coinduct community services as part of their rehabilitation and reintegration. With regard to environmental-related services, there are 5 activities that have been implemented under the “Save the Environment Ruamjai Pakdi Project”. They are 1) Reforestation activities and increasing green space; 2) Coastal garbage collection activities; 3) Dredging canals and drainage pipes to clean up water resources; 4) Green Justice activities: Justice protects the environment; and 5) Training to provide knowledge regarding conservation of the environment.
Title: Memorandum of understanding between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs of the Republic of Croatia on Political Consultations
The cabinet approved the proposal of Ministry of Foreign Affairs:
1. Approved the draft Memorandum of understanding between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs of the Republic of Croatia on Political Consultations. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against the principle approved by the cabinet, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
2. Approved Minister of Foreign Affairs or a representative as signatory of the MOU.
Gist
According to Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Thailand and Croatia have established diplomatic relations since September 3, 1992. However, there is yet a tangible cooperation mechanism. Therefore, both countries agreed to develop the MOU with an aim to establish political consultation mechanism, which will also serve as a forum for exchanging opinions on bilateral relations and international issues of mutual interest. The MOU will serve as a basis for expanding concrete cooperation in various fields between Thailand and Croatia in the future.
Title: Request for approval on 2024 APEC Women and the Economy Forum (WEF) Statement
The cabinet approved the proposals of Ministry of Social Development and Human Security:
1. Approved the draft 2024 APEC Women and the Economy Forum (WEF) Statement. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Social Development and Human Security may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
2. Approved for Minister of Social Development and Human Security or a representative to adopt the Statement at the High-Level Policy Dialogue on Woman and the Economy (HLPDWE), held in the Republic of Peru on May 16, 2024.
Gist
The draft 2024 APEC Women and the Economy Forum (WEF) Statement is the outcome document of the High-Level Policy Dialogue on Woman and the Economy. The statement prescribes joint intent in empowering women economically through: 1) promoting women’s occupations in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM); 2) creating financial opportunity; and 3) promoting equality and preventing women abuse.
Title: Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Ministry of Environment, Water and Agriculture of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on agriculture cooperation
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives:
1. Approved the draft Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Ministry of Environment, Water and Agriculture of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on agriculture cooperation. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
2. Approved Minister of Agriculture and Cooperatives or a representative as signatory of the MOU
Gist
The draft Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Ministry of Environment, Water and Agriculture of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on agriculture cooperation is aimed to enhance agricultural cooperation and develop agricultural production capacity on the basis of mutual benefits in accordance with laws and regulations of both sides. Areas of cooperation include:
(1) Crop production
(2) Livestock
(3) Fishing
(4) Sanitary and phytosanitary measures
(5) Food safety
(6) Food processing
(7) Water and land management
(8) Agricultural machinery
(9) Use of modern technology in the field of agriculture and techniques for producing and processing agricultural products.
(10) Agricultural trade exchange
(11) Agricultural regulatory system
(12) Agricultural insurance
(13) Other mutually agreed branches.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/83513