รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on May 21, 2024.


วันจันทร์ที่ 27 พฤษภาคม 2567
27/05/2567
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on May 21, 2024.
The cabinet met on May 21, 2024.
The cabinet met on May 21, 2024. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on convocation of extraordinary session of the National Assembly, B.E. …, and draft Royal Decree on prorogation of extraordinary session of the National Assembly, B.E. …
It is, therefore, appropriate for the extraordinary session of the National Assembly to be convoked from June 19, 2024 onward. The date for prorogation of extraordinary session of the National Assembly shall later be decided by the House of Representatives Coordinating Committee.
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Bangkok (Sai Mai district’s Or Ngern subdistrict, and Khlong Sam Wa district’s West Sam Wa and East Sam Wa subdistricts) and Pathum Thani (Lam Luk Ka district’s Lad Sawai, Bung Kham Proi, Lam Luk Ka, and Bung Thonglang subdistritcs), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Bangkok (Sai Mai district’s Or Ngern subdistrict, and Khlong Sam Wa district’s West Sam Wa and East Sam Wa subdistricts) and Pathum Thani (Lam Luk Ka district’s Lad Sawai, Bung Kham Proi, Lam Luk Ka, and Bung Thonglang subdistritcs), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Transport. Ministry of Transport shall take comments of Official of Council of State into consideration.
Gist
The Royal Decree prescribes areas in Bangkok (Sai Mai district’s Or Ngern subdistrict, and Khlong Sam Wa district’s West Sam Wa and East Sam Wa subdistricts) and Pathum Thani (Lam Luk Ka district’s Lad Sawai, Bung Kham Proi, Lam Luk Ka, and Bung Thonglang subdistritcs) to be expropriated for an extension of Chalong Rat Expressway (Jatuchote – Lam Luk Ka section) and related facilities for the total distance of 16.21 km. Land survey and appropriation shall commence within 180 days after the Royal Decree is in effect.
Title: Request for approval of Ministerial Declaration on Water for Shared Prosperity
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Declaration on Water for Shared Prosperity, which is the outcome document of the 10th World Water Forum. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Office of National Water Resources may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Head of the Thai delegation at the 10th World Water Forum is authorized to adopt the draft Ministerial Declaration. This is as proposed by Office of National Water Resources.
Gist
The 10th World Water Forum will be held during May 20-21, 2024 in Bali, Indonesia, under the theme “Water for Shared Prosperity”. The draft Ministerial Declaration on Water for Shared Prosperity will be adopted as the outcome document. The document is aimed to affirm political intent to drive forward policy making against water resource challenges. Key agendas include climate change, access to clean water, proposing of World Lake Day, disaster risk reduction, academic cooperation, and Indonesia’s initiatives.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/83514