รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Press Statement by H.E. Ms. Paetongtarn Shinawatra, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand at the conclusion of the Sixth BIMSTEC Summit


วันศุกร์ที่ 4 เมษายน 2568
04/04/2568
พิมพ์
Press Statement by H.E. Ms. Paetongtarn Shinawatra, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand at the conclusion of the Sixth BIMSTEC Summit
on 4 April 2025 at Shangri-La Hotel, Bangkok (As delivered)
Excellencies,
Members of the media,
Ladies and gentlemen,
Today, I had the honour to chair the 6th BIMSTEC Summit. As the host of the 1st BIMSTEC Summit in 2004, we are pleased to bring BIMSTEC back home to Bangkok, and to have an opportunity to build on the foundations laid over the past 20 years.
The theme of Thailand’s Chairmanship is “Prosperous, Resilient, and Open BIMSTEC”. Given the current international circumstances and regional challenges, BIMSTEC will fortify our cooperation and collective actions. This includes efforts in preparation, relief and recovery to countries affected by natural disasters through existing cooperation, including a more robust mechanism based on the recent experience from the recent earthquake.
Today, BIMSTEC Leaders have approved 6 key outcome documents:
First, the BIMSTEC Bangkok Vision 2030. It is a key highlight of the Summit, our first ever vision that outlines a strategic plan to build a Prosperous, Resilient and Open or “PRO BIMSTEC” by 2030. The Vision focuses on enhancing economic integration, connectivity, and human security.
Second, the 6th BIMSTEC Summit Declaration, which reaffirms our commitment towards BIMSTEC and the BIMSTEC Bangkok Vision 2030.
Third, the Rules of Procedure for BIMSTEC Mechanisms. It provides a more systematic and rules-based framework for BIMSTEC operations, ensuring greater efficiency and consistency.
Fourth, the Report of the BIMSTEC Eminent Persons’ Group on the Future Direction of BIMSTEC. It offers key recommendations that aligns with the BIMSTEC Bangkok Vision 2030.
Fifth, we also witnessed the signing of the Agreement on Maritime Transport Cooperation. It will strengthen maritime connectivity between South and Southeast Asia, improve logistical efficiency, reduce trade costs, and enhance the movement of goods and people.
Sixth, the meeting also endorsed BIMSTEC Leaders’ Joint Statement on the Impact of the Earthquake in Myanmar. This Joint Statement expresses our condolences, solidarity, and commitment to supporting the affected countries. It also aims to reflect our firm collaboration in disaster management and to strengthen our response mechanisms for natural disasters.
Moreover, the PRO BIMSTEC framework will allow BIMSTEC to actively engage with other regional and international organizations, ensuring that our voice is heard on key issues such as trade, connectivity, and human security.
The outcomes of this Summit will also deliver concrete and tangible benefits to the Thai people. The Agreement on Maritime Transport Cooperation will reduce shipping costs and improve supply chain efficiency — making Thai exports more competitive and create new market and investment opportunities. Enhanced people-to-people exchanges through tourism and cultural cooperation will boost Thailand’s tourism sector and create new job opportunities. Ultimately, these outcomes will translate into greater economic opportunities and improved livelihoods for the Thai people.
Ladies and gentlemen,
Prior to the 6th BIMSTEC Summit, Thailand welcomed the official visits of The Right Honorable Mr. K P Sharma Oli, Prime Minister of Nepal on 2nd April 2025, and His Excellency Mr. Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of India on 3rd and 4th April 2025.
The visit by the Nepali Prime Minister  marked the first ever official visit to Thailand by a Prime Minister of Nepal. We discussed various areas of cooperation, including trade and economy, ease of doing business, agriculture, tourism and cultured, as well as human resource development assistance, which we have extended to Nepal for over 50 years. Moreover, 8 agreements and MoUs were signed during this visit.
The Indian Prime Minister’s visit was marked by the announcement of the elevation of Thailand-India relations to a Strategic Partnership. We agreed to enhance cooperation in various areas including political and defence cooperation, trade and investment, physical, digital and people-to-people connectivity, culture and tourism, including the development of a Buddhist Circuit, as well as  exchanged views on regional and global issues. Both of us also welcomed the exchange of several important agreements and MoUs between India and Thailand.
Lastly, I wish to congratulate all BIMSTEC Member States for the success of today’s Summit, and look forward to Bangladesh’s leadership in continuing our successes.
Thank you very much.
* * * * *

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/95107