รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with OECD Secretary-General


วันศุกร์ที่ 1 พฤศจิกายน 2567
01/11/2567
พิมพ์
PM meets with OECD Secretary-General
PM meets with OECD Secretary-General
October 30, 2024, at 1100hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed that Mr. Mathias Cormann, Secretary-General of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra on occasion of his official visit to Thailand as guest of Thai Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Gist of the meeting is as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed OECD Secretary-General, and thanked him for his support and invitation for Thailand to start accession discussions, making Thailand an OECD candidate country. She affirmed the country’s strong commitment and readiness to become OECD member and to forge close and strategic economic partnership. Thailand could also take on a role of promoting regional connectivity, through such international platforms as APEC and ASEAN, which will help enhance competitiveness and people’s quality of life. OECD membership would also increase Thailand’s chance to attract businesses and investments from OECD member countries and internationally.
The OECD Secretary-General was pleased with Thailand’s commencement of accession discussions. Thailand has played a major role in the Southeast Asian region, and has been collaborating with OECD since 2005. OECD is ready to work together with Thai agencies in facilitating the country’s accession process. He expressed confidence that Thailand’s OECD membership would greatly benefit the country and people. It would help promote national reform, strengthen economy, and elevate Thai people’s living standard.
Both parties also underscored the importance to forge close cooperation to ensure that the accession process brings about sustainable development and is in line with international goals. The Prime Minister reaffirmed Thailand’s commitment to cooperate with all sectors, especially the private sector, so that related implementations are fruitful and in line with international standards. She also invited the OECD to consider establishing a Regional Headquarter in Thailand to further promote development and close cooperation. The OECD Secretary-General would be pleased to provide recommendations and support on policy improvement process, especially in the areas of investment, competition, education, public health, and environment, to be in line with the OECD framework.
Thailand has started its OECD accession process on June 17, 2024. There are 3 stages in the OECD accession process, and Thailand is currently in stage 2. Thailand and the OECD will draft the Accession Roadmap to set the goals, conditions and timeframe for the alignment to and implementation of relevant OECD’s instruments. When the Roadmap is successfully implemented, the OECD Council will consider inviting Thailand to become a member.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/89748