รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Deputy PM Phumtham meets with CEOs of Reignwood Group and Icons Series


วันอังคารที่ 3 กันยายน 2567
03/09/2567
พิมพ์
​Deputy PM Phumtham meets with CEOs of Reignwood Group and Icons Series
​Deputy PM Phumtham meets with CEOs of Reignwood Group and Icons Series
September 2, 2024, at 0900hrs, at the Ministry of Commerce, Deputy Prime Minister Phumtham Wechayachai, acting Prime Minister, met with Ms. Woraphanit Ruayrungruang, CEO of Reignwood Group, and Mr. Thomas Brookes, founder and CEO of Icons Series and former football player under MUFC and LFC. Gist of the meeting is as follows:
The Deputy Prime Minister thanked Reignwood Group for supporting the Government’s tourism and sports policy through the organization of Asia’s first competitive team match-play golf tournament “Reignwood Park Icons of Football” in 2025 which would further enhance Thailand’s image and recognition at the international stage. Reignwood Group CEO expressed readiness to comply with the Government’s policy in enhancing the country’s tourism and sports capacity and developing sports personnel and youths.
Both sides discussed the following issues of mutual interest:
On sports policy, the Government strives to promote soft power, and aims for Thailand to become one of the region’s tourism and sports destination. Thailand is pleased with the collaboration between Reignwood Group and Icons Series which would bolster the Government’s effort in elevating the country’s sports excellence and capacity at the international competitions, and leveraging sports to promote tourism.
The Deputy Prime Minister expressed hope that participation of former footballers of MUFC and LFC will attract both foreign tourists and sports enthusiasts, raising Thailand’s image among the global community. The Thai Government is pleased to work together with the private sector in launching training program for young Thai footballers and coaches. The golf tournament “Reignwood Park Icons of Football” is hoped to be a good start for cordial relations and future collaborations in further developing Thailand’s golfing sports and tourism.
Global football icons, such as Paul Ince, Robbie Fowler, Dwight Yorke, and Patrik Berger are expected to participate in the “Reignwood Park Icons of Football” in Thailand next year.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/87711