รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM chairs historic photo session to celebrate beginning of marriage equality in Thailand


วันศุกร์ที่ 17 มกราคม 2568
17/01/2568
พิมพ์
PM chairs historic photo session to celebrate beginning of marriage equality in Thailand
PM chairs historic photo session to celebrate beginning of marriage equality in Thailand
January 15, 2025, at 1600hrs, at the lawn in front of the Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra chaired a historic photo session to celebrate marriage equality in Thailand. Participating in the photo session were Minister attached to the Prime Minister's Office Jiraporn Sindhuprai, Minister of Foreign Affairs Maris Sangiampongsa, Minister of Social Development and Human Security Varawut Silpa-archa, Minister of Commerce Pichai Naripthaphan, Deputy Minister of Interior Theerarat Samrejvanich, Governor of Bangkok Chadchart Sittipunt, Governor of the Tourism Authority of Thailand Thapanee Kiatphaibool, and foreign diplomats including British Ambassador Mark Gooding OBE, French Ambassador Jean-Claude Poimboeuf, U.S. Ambassador Robert F. Godec, and UN Resident Coordinator Michaela Friberg-storey, as well as LGBTQ+ celebrity couples.
Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed that the historic photo session celebrating the success of marriage equality law today is a testament to equal loves and Thailand’s accomplishment in being the 1st country/jurisdiction in ASEAN, and 3rd in Asia, to allow same-sex marriage. The Government is now acknowledged for opening to gender diversity and is committed to enhancing the country's image in all dimensions to promote Thailand as an LGBTQ+ Global Destination to increase opportunities for growth in the tourism industry.
The Civil and Commercial Code Amendment Act (No. 24) B.E. 2567, which is also known as the Marriage Equality Law, legalizes same-sex marriage in Thailand through replacing gender-specific terms, and revising other related provisions to ensure that same-sex couples enjoy the same rights and family status/duties as those of male and female spouses.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Government has instructed relevant agencies to build public awareness on various rights under the law, e.g., the right on child adoption, asset management, and medical decision-making, etc. Currently, 878 registrars in districts nationwide and 50 districts in Bangkok are ready to facilitate equal marriage registration.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/92466