รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM chairs opening of 5th ASEAN Digital Minister’s Meeting (ADGMIN)


วันศุกร์ที่ 17 มกราคม 2568
17/01/2568
พิมพ์
PM chairs opening of 5th ASEAN Digital Minister’s Meeting (ADGMIN)
PM chairs opening of 5th ASEAN Digital Minister’s Meeting (ADGMIN)
January 16, 2025, at 0830hrs, at Avani+ Riverside Hotel, Bangkok, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra attended and chaired the opening ceremony of the 5th ASEAN Digital Minister’s Meeting (ADGMIN). Deputy Government Spokesperson Karom Polpornklang disclosed gist as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed representatives from ASEAN member countries to Thailand and emphasized the importance of cooperation to develop regional digital economy in a bid to ensure stability, sustainability, and inclusivity of all sectors. The event, held at the start of the year, would be an opportunity for ASEAN members to exchange ideas and experiences on this endeavor.
The Prime Minister took the occasion to emphasize 3 important aspects in shaping ASEAN’s digital future:
1. Combating online scams: The Prime Minister reiterated that "online scam" is a serious threat to the public. Solving this problem requires regional cooperation to create safety in the digital world and build public confidence.
2. Falsification and distortion of information: Fake news and distorted information are the problems that undermine social confidence. The Prime Minister proposed that ASEAN develop a strong mechanism to monitor and control online information. She also emphasized the importance of promoting digital literacy among the public so that they can use the internet safely and responsibly.
3. Utilization of artificial intelligence (AI): The Prime Minister called for comprehensive and responsible use of AI technology. Thailand will host the 3rd UNESCO Global Forum on the Ethics of Artificial Intelligence in collaboration with the Educational Organization. United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) in June this year. Representatives from ASEAN member countries will be invited to attend the forum.
In closing, the Prime Minister expressed confidence that ASEAN's close collaboration could turn crises into opportunities and create digital transformation that leaves no one behind. She also hoped for constructive exchange of ideas and experiences at the 5th ASEAN Digital Minister’s Meeting which would lead to tangible results.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/92462