รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Speech by the Prime Minister (H.E. Mr. Srettha Thavisin) at the 18th Session of the Intergovernmental Committee for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage 


วันพุธที่ 6 ธันวาคม 2566
06/12/2566
พิมพ์
Speech by the Prime Minister (H.E. Mr. Srettha Thavisin) at the 18th Session of the Intergovernmental Committee for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage
for its decision to inscribe “Songkran in Thailand” on the Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity
Speech by the Prime Minister (H.E. Mr. Srettha Thavisin) at the 18th Session of the Intergovernmental Committee for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage for its decision to inscribe “Songkran in Thailand”
on the Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity
Chairperson,
Distinguished Ladies and Gentlemen,
On behalf of the Royal Thai Government and the people of Thailand, I would like to express my appreciation to The Government of the Republic of Botswana for hosting the 18th Session of the Intergovernmental Committee for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage.
I would also like to thank The Evaluation Body for their dedication and commitment, and The Intergovernmental Committee for inscribing “Songkran in Thailand” on the Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity, and lastly, the Secretariat for all their hard work.
Songkran is a traditional Thai New Year celebrated in mid-April throughout the country. The tradition has been practiced and passed down from generation to generation by Thai people and ethnic communities. This exquisite and meaningful tradition reflects Thai values of gratitude to ancestors, generosity and goodwill toward others, and a spirit of unity.
All Songkran activities are sacred and composed of different elements of cultural heritage. Some of the most well-known traditions of Songkran include alms, sprinkling water onto Buddha images, pouring scented water over the revered elders’ hands, as well as folk plays and performances depicting the legend of Songkran.
Therefore, Songkran in Thailand represents intangible cultural heritage element that reflects cultural diversity, human creativity, and is essential for achieving sustainable development.
We are pleased to promote knowledge and practices of Songkran with all international communities, and I hope that the dialogue and mutual understanding will contribute to attaining peace and security for all.
With our smile and warm hospitality, we welcome visitors from all over the world to join us and experience Songkran in Thailand.
Thank you.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/75761