รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM briefs the press on cabinet’s resolutions


วันอังคารที่ 7 พฤศจิกายน 2566
07/11/2566
พิมพ์
PM briefs the press on cabinet’s resolutions
PM briefs the press on cabinet’s resolutions
November 7, 2023, at 10.50 hrs, at the Command Building I, Government House, following the weekly cabinet meeting, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin disclosed that a number of issues were discussed at the cabinet meeting, one of which is the subsidy for workers who have returned from Israel and their airfare reimbursement. Minister of Labor has been instructed to ensure that all workers have been compensated in a timely manner as late compensation may result in the workers not willing to return to Thailand. The Prime Minister also disclosed that the issue of marriage equality is expected to be included in the agenda of the next cabinet meeting.
On the construction delay of phase 3 of Laem Chabang Port, the Prime Minister has made an order for concerned minister to expedite the construction in accordance with the timeframe stipulated in the contract. He also enjoined members of the cabinet to closely follow up on ongoing projects under their responsibility to prevent such delay, which would negatively impact the progress of national development and public interest.
The cabinet also approved a setup of a committee on PM2.5 particulates, which is chaired by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Natural Resources and Environment, and a subcommittee to address EEC-related problems, with Minister of Transport Suriya Jungrungreangkit as chair, and BOI Secretary-General Narit Therdsteerasukdi as secretary. The cabinet also discussed the concession of potash mining project, granted to 3 companies, which have yet to be commenced. Thailand has the world's 2nd largest potash reserves, after Canada, which remain untapped. Potash is used for fertilizer production, and is very much in high demand. As the Government expects to save money from importing potash and earn more revenue from exporting the ore, it may proceed to seek new bidders if the current concessionaires fail to implement the project.
The Prime Minister also mentioned Halal food industry, saying that the Government has placed great importance on the industry and wants to upgrade an agency supervising Halal food industry to a department-level body. This is for the more effective promotion of Halal food export to countries with predominantly Islamic populations. Office of the Civil Service Commission (OCSC) has been assigned to look into the upgrade of the Halal administrative unit to a department.
With regard to a new narcotics regulation on classification of drug addicts who will be eligible to enroll for treatment rather than being sent to jail, the cabinet approved that those who are in possession of up to 5 methamphetamine pills, instead of 10 pills as reported earlier, will be classified as drug addicts.
In the wake of a recent incident regarding the stealing and selling of online personal information of more than 15 million people, Minister of Digital Economy and Society and Minister of Interior were ordered to work together in formulating an action plan against such scams.
On salary raise of civil servants, the Prime Minister clarified that it is just a proposal for feasibility study. With regard to an arrest of a man who allegedly threatened the Prime Minister's life, he said to leave the authority proceed with the legal action, and insisted that the Government is always open for constructive comments and suggestions, but not any threat.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/74325