รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Double track railways to open for public service this year


วันพุธที่ 16 สิงหาคม 2566
Double track railways to open for public service this year
Double track railways to open for public service this year
August 14, 2023, Deputy Government Spokesperson Rachada Dhanadirek disclosed the progress of five double-track railway projects implemented during the Government of Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha that these projects are about to complete and set to open for service from September 2023 onward.
The five double-track railway projects are: 1) Northern route: Lop Buri – Pak Nam Pho, for a distance of 145 km; 2) Northeastern route: Map Kabao – Thanon Jira Junction, for a distance of 132 km; 3) Southern route: Nakhon Pathom – Chumphon, for the distance of 421 km (Nakhon Pathom – Hua Hin and Hua Hin – Prachuab Kirikhan); 4) Northern route: Denchai – Chiang Rai – Chiang Khong; and 5) Northeastern route: Ban Phai – Mukdaharn – Nakhon Phanom.
Construction of the first 3 routes has commenced since early 2018. They are expected to be opened for service in 2023-2024. The first route has seen 80% progress, while 7 stations of the second route (section Saraburi – Nakhon Ratchasima) have already been in service, and the double track for section Bandai Ma – Khlong Khanan Chit is set to open this September. Khao Tao – Prachuab Kirikhan section of the Southern route is also up and running, whereas the Bang Saphan Noi (Prachuab Kirikhan) – Chumphon section is expected to open for service toward the end of this year. The 4th and 5th projects are now in progress.
All these projects, once completed, would greatly contribute to national competitiveness through trade and logistics connectivity, both domestically and internationally. They will cover a total distance of 700 km and would increase railroad capacity, allowing more frequent services, and cutting down on travel time by at least one hour. The 2nd phase of the double-track rail project has also been planned. Should it be pushed forward, the double-track railroad will serve over 50 provinces, covering over 3,000 km by the year 2029. Trains in operation will be doubled in number, while the speed of freight trains will increase from 29 to 60 km per hour, and passenger trains, from 50 km to 100-120 km per hour.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/71347