รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM to observe progress of train tunnel construction for double-track rail projects in Saraburi province


วันพุธที่ 16 สิงหาคม 2566
16/08/2566
พิมพ์
PM to observe progress of train tunnel construction for double-track rail projects in Saraburi province
PM to observe progress of train tunnel construction for double-track rail projects in Saraburi province
August 16, 2023, Deputy Government Spokesperson Traisuree Taisaranakul disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha is scheduled to take a field visit to Saraburi province on August 17, 2023. His delegation for this visit includes Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Public Health Anutin Charnvirakul, Minister of Interior Gen. Anupong Paojinda, Minister of Labor Suchart Chomklin, Minister Attached to Prime Minister’s Office Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana, Deputy Minister of Transport Athirat Ratanaset (as acting Minister of Transport), and Prime Minister’s Secretary General Pirapan Salirathavibhaga. The Prime Minister’s schedule is as follows:
At 0845hrs, the Prime Minister will follow up on the construction progress of the 1st train tunnel (Pha Sadet Tunnel) of the double-track railway, route Map Kabao (Saraburi) - Thanon Chira Junction (Nakhon Ratchasima), at Hin Lap Station construction site in Muak Lek district. He will be briefed by State Railway of Thailand (SRT)’s Governor Nirut Maneephan on the overall progress of Map Kabao - Thanon Chira Junction double-track railway construction, and will, then, leave for the site of Muak Lek Tunnel in Muak Lek subdistrict, Muak Lek district, to monitor the construction progress of the 1st section of Thai-Chinese Bangkok - Nong Khai high-speed railway project (Bangkok – Nakhon Ratchasima). The Prime Minister will visit Navaminda Kasatriyadhiraj Royal Air Force Academy in Mitraphap subdistrict before returning to Bangkok later in the day.
The Northeastern double-track railway route, Map Kabao (Saraburi) - Thanon Chira Junction (Nakhon Ratchasima), consists of 3 tunnels, namely, 1) Pha Sadet Tunnel, situating between Map Kabao Station, Pha Sadet Station, and Hin Lap Station (Saraburi province). It is a double tunnel and single track. Once completed, Pha Sadet Tunnel will be the longest train tunnel in Thailand with 5.20 kilometers long. The construction progress is 98.13%, and is expected to open for service this year; 2) the second tunnel is situated between Hin Lap Station and the Muak Lek Station; and 3) the third tunnel is between Khlong Khanan Chit Station (Nakhon Ratchasima’s Pak Chong district) and Khlong Phai Station (Nakhon Ratchasima’s Si Khew district).
The Thai-Chinese Bangkok - Nong Khai high-speed railway project has two tunnels: 1) Muak Lek Tunnel in Saraburi, situated between Pha Sadet Station and Hin Lap Station. It is a 3.465-km single tunnel and double track. Construction progress is 39.6%;  and 2) Khlong Phai Tunnel in Nakhon Ratchasima, situated between Chan Teuk Station and Khlong Phai Station. It is a 4.10-km single tunnel and double track. Construction progress is 31.12%.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/71366