รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM’s joint press conference with Chancellor of Germany


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 14 มีนาคม 2567
PM’s joint press conference with Chancellor of Germany
PM’s joint press conference with Chancellor of Germany
March 13, 2024, at 1800hrs (Berlin local time), at the Federal Chancellery, Federal Republic of Germany, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin and H.E. Mr. Olaf Scholz, Chancellor of Germany, chaired the joint press conference. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist as follows:
The Prime Minister thanked the Chancellor and German public and private sectors for the warm welcome. This visit of the Prime Minister followed the official visit of the German President to Thailand on January 24 – 26, 2024, during which the President has witnessed Thailand’s democratic development and upholding of human rights.
The Prime Minister affirmed the country’s commitment to promoting political, economic, and social security in accordance with predictable and rule-based democratic process in order to boost confidence of Germany and Thailand’s other friends across the globe. With this, both leaders came to terms in elevating relations between the two countries to the strategic partnership, of which the detail will be further discussed under an existing bilateral dialogue mechanism.
Under the strategic partnership, Thailand believes that bilateral cooperation will significantly increase in an inclusive manner, covering regional cooperation with ASEAN and in the Indo-Pacific region. It will also promote partnerships for sustainable development to overcome challenges.
The two leaders agreed to strengthen cooperation in clean energy, solar/wind/water power generation, and green hydrogen, as well as cooperation in EVs, especially EVs manufacturing, technology and knowledge transfer, and promotion of related industries. The Prime Minister affirmed the Government’s commitment to continue supporting Germany’s investment in the manufacturing of conventional internal combustion engine (ICE) and hybrid vehicles. He also extended his invitation for German investors to take part in the infrastructure development plan under Thailand Vision 2030 ‘IGNITE THAILAND’, especially the Landbridge project.
The Prime Minister expressed hope to promote mutual trade and investment through the Thai-EU FTA, and hoped that German would support Thailand to join OECD. Including, people-to-people exchanges and tourism through exemption of Schengen visas for Thai ordinary passport holders.
The Prime Minister and the German Chancellor also discussed other issues of mutual interest, i.e., labor and vocational education cooperation, human resources development, sustainable agriculture, and international security. During the official visit, the Prime Minister also had the chances to meet with German private sector. He strongly hoped that they consider making investment in Thailand at the nearest opportunity.
In closing, the Prime Minister thanked the German Chancellor, and extended his invitation for the latter to pay an official visit to Thailand to build upon the momentum of the meeting today.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/80287