รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​The cabinet met on June 20, 2023. 


วันเสาร์ที่ 24 มิถุนายน 2566
24/06/2566
พิมพ์
​The cabinet met on June 20, 2023.
​The cabinet met on June 20, 2023. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Thailand’s social outlook in first quarter of 2023
The cabinet acknowledged Office of National Economic and Social Development Council (NESDC)’s report on Thailand’s social outlook in the 1st quarter of 2023. Gist
According to the report:
1. The labor situation in Thailand has shown remarkable improvement, as the number of people employed reached 39.6 million, a 2.4% increase compared to the same period in the previous year, thanks to employment expansion in both the agricultural and non-agricultural sectors. The unemployment rate, at 1.05%, has reverted to normal levels, accompanied by a noticeable rise in overtime work and higher wages. Overall wages increased by 0.4%, whereas wages in the private sector increased by 1.9%
2. Household debt in Thailand during the 4th quarter of 2022, amounted to 15.09 trillion baht, reflecting a slower growth rate of 3.5% compared to the previous quarter's 4.0%. The household debt-to-GDP ratio stood at 86.9%.
3. The incidence of illnesses under surveillance increased by 124.5% due to the rise in cases of hand, foot, and mouth disease, particularly among children under the age of 5. On the other hand, the mental health situation has shown signs of improvement.
4. The consumption of alcohol and cigarettes increased by 2.5%, with alcohol consumption increasing by 4.1% while cigarette consumption has decreased by 0.23%
5. In the 1st quarter of 2023, there were a total of 103,936 reported criminal cases, an increase of 2.2% compared to the same quarter of 2022. In terms of road traffic accidents, there were 207,498 reported casualties, which represented a 7.8% decrease compared to the same quarter of the previous year.
6. Consumer protection complaints increased by 203.4% compared to the previous quarter. In addition, NESDC reported on the following significant social situations:
7. Mutelu: Opportunities for Promoting Belief-Based Tourism: Mutelu tourism can be compared to "faith-based tourism". The value of Mutelu tourism, particularly related to pilgrimage tourism, is estimated by the Ministry of Commerce to circulate up to 10,800 million baht. There are various forms of Mutelu tourism, which can be broadly classified into two main categories: 1) Mutelu as places such as temples, shrines, and sacred sites, as well as replicas of sacred entities; and 2) Mutelu as non-places such as talismans, rituals, and the globally renowned artistry of Thai tattoos.
8. Social Enterprises for the Support of an Aging Society: Entering an aging society is an issue of great interest and challenge for the country. The needs of the elderly are diverse, and government measures alone cannot cover all aspects. As a result, various social sector organizations play a role in bridging the gaps in elderly care models, particularly through social enterprises (SEs), to accommodate the elderly in terms of employment and health.
9. Non-Monetary Savings: Alternative Approaches for Future Income Generation: Currently, alternative forms of saving that do not involve money are being encouraged. One such option is asset saving through tree planting. This concept originated from using trees as collateral for loans or debt repayment. Farmers can plant trees and use them as assets to secure loans or repay debts to banks. Another form of non-monetary saving is asset saving through animal husbandry, such as raising cattle, buffaloes, pigs, chickens, and fish.
The report also includes an article: "Morals in Thai Society", which points out Thailand's position in the Corruption Perceptions Index (CPI) of 2022, ranking 101st out of 180 countries. This reflects the relatively low level of morals in the country. Additionally, a survey conducted by the Center for Morality Promotion in 2022 using the Moral Index, which measures various aspects of morality including sufficiency, discipline, gratitude, honesty, and volunteerism, revealed that most Thais have a fair level of morality. The aspect with the highest level of morality is gratitude, while sufficiency scores the lowest. Notably, the moral level among the working-age population tends to decline.
Title: Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on bilateral dialogue between Ministry of Foreign affairs of the Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Diaspora of the Republic of Kosovo
The cabinet approved the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on bilateral dialogue between Ministry of Foreign affairs of the Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Diaspora of the Republic of Kosovo, which will be signed during the visit to Thailand of Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs and Diaspora of the Republic of Kosovo Kreshnik Ahmeti during June 22-24, 2023.
Gist
The MOU will be the first concrete mechanism for bilateral dialogue and cooperation between Ministry of Foreign affairs of the Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Diaspora of the Republic of Kosovo, and is aimed at strengthening relations and cooperation between the two countries, especially in the areas which the two parties agreed upon, i.e., political, economic, and consular cooperation, culture, tourism, science and technology, and regional and international cooperation.
Under the MOU, Thailand and Kosovo shall adhere to the following principles: 1) mutual respect for state sovereignty and sovereign equality; 2) non- interference in each other's internal affairs; and 3) assistance in the areas mutually agreed upon. The two countries shall take turn to host a meeting once every two years or on a date mutually agreed upon. The MOU is not legally binding and does not create any legal rights or obligations to the incoming cabinet. Substance of the MOU is neither a treaty under international law nor a treaty under Section 178 of the Constitution of the Kingdom of Thailand.
Kosovo is Thailand’s potential export market, as it is a newly-emerged European country that remains dependent on the import of goods, such as food, livestock, petroleum, chemicals, machineries, ores, textiles, ceramic and glasses, and electrical devices. In 2022, total trade value between the two countries is recorded at US$12,868,581, an increase of 57.68% from 2021, with Kosovo’s import of Thai products worth US$12,654,501. Major products exported to Kosovo include: 1) frozen duck meat, 2) canned tuna, 3) paper, 4) chilled duck meat, 5) air conditioner parts, 6) air conditioner, 7) silver jewelries, 8) computer, 9) plant seeds, and 10) synthetic fibers.
Title: Draft Joint Ministerial Statement of the Twelfth ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on Youth and Draft Joint Ministerial Statement of the Eighth ASEAN Plus Three Ministerial Meeting on Youth
The cabinet approved the proposal of Ministry of Social Development and Human Security as follows:
1. Approved the draft Joint Ministerial Statement of the Twelfth ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on Youth and Draft Joint Ministerial Statement of the Eighth ASEAN Plus Three Ministerial Meeting on Youth. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Social Development and Human Security may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
2. Authorized Minister of Social Development and Human Security or a representative as head of the Thai delegation at the meetings and to adopt the draft Joint Ministerial Statement of the Twelfth ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on Youth and Draft Joint Ministerial Statement of the Eighth ASEAN Plus Three Ministerial Meeting on Youth
Gist
The draft Joint Ministerial Statement of the Twelfth ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on Youth prescribes the joint commitment to implement ASEAN Work Plan on Youth, 2021-2025; endorse the proposal for a comprehensive and interdisciplinary approach to education and training in climate change and digitalization for sustainable development; and acknowledge ASEAN Leaders’ Statement on Timor Leste’s ASEAN membership, among others.
The draft Joint Ministerial Statement of the Eighth ASEAN Plus Three Ministerial Meeting on Youth prescribes joint commitment to implement ASEAN Work Plan on Youth, 2021-2025 and ASEAN Plus Three Work Plan on Youth, 2021-2025, e.g., people-to-people exchange programs through ASEAN-People's Republic of China, ASEAN-Republic of Korea, and ASEAN-Japan collaboration projects, etc.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/69632