รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-‘Umesh Pandey’, Thai Trade Representative, talks with APM Terminals to hear ways to make logistics more efficient  


วันพุธที่ 5 มีนาคม 2568
‘Umesh Pandey’, Thai Trade Representative, talks with APM Terminals to hear ways to make logistics more efficient
‘Umesh Pandey’, Thai Trade Representative, talks with APM Terminals to hear ways to make logistics more efficient
Umesh Pandey, Thai Trade Representative, held a meeting with one of the world’s leading logistics firms – APM Terminals Management, whereby the key issues discussed was ways to make the operations in Thailand more efficient and help raise the trade number for Thailand.
APM Terminals, which operates 3 berths out of Leam Chabang Port, has been operating in Thailand for the past 30-years, and is one of the world’s leading provider of logistics services under its subsidiary - Maersk. APM Terminals manages container terminals and provides integrated sea and land transportation services with 76 ports and piers in 38 countries on 5 continents.
Kaare Spange, Chief Executive – Thailand, APM Terminals, laid out some of the issues that he and other global port operators are looking to see in Thailand that could help facilitate and make the flow of goods more efficient.
Mr. Umesh revealed that APM Terminals is interested in developing logistics and continuously expanding its investment in Thailand. The idea is to create a joint truck management system, Truck Appointment System, to manage container trucks from both inbound and outbound ships, which will have a positive effect on traffic in the port area, increase speed, reduce pollution, and will be an important part in increasing the efficiency of maritime transportation in Thailand.
As part of the move, Mr. Umesh asked Mr. Karee to take the initiative to ask Thai International Cargo and Container Terminals Association (TICTA) to send a list of issues that the government can undertake in order to support a greater flow of goods from Laem Chabang Port.
Mr. Umesh offered to be the person who shall coordinate and discuss with the relevant government sectors to eliminate problems and obstacles, promote efficiency in operations, and help facilitate overall trade to promote trade and investment for Thailand.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/94072