รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM chairs 1/2023 permanent-secretary level meeting


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 28 กันยายน 2566
​PM chairs 1/2023 permanent-secretary level meeting
​PM chairs 1/2023 permanent-secretary level meeting
September 25, 2023, at 11.30 hrs, at Santi Maitri Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin presided over the 1/2023 meeting of permanent secretaries and chiefs of ministry-level agencies and equivalent officials. Attending the meeting were Prime Minister’s Secretary General Prommin Lertsuridej, executives of Prime Minister’s Secretariat, executives of Office of the Civil Service Commission, and concerned officials. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
Prior to the meeting, the Prime Minister took photos with the permanent secretaries and chiefs of ministry-level agencies and equivalent officials, and those who are about to retire. He, then, thanked them for attending the meeting, and commended the retiring executives for their dedication and hard work in performing their duties for the nation and people throughout their career. They are the role models for the next generation government officials to follow suit. The Prime Minister wished them happy retirement and healthiness.
He, then, was briefed on the role and mission of the Prime Minister’s Secretariat, which is the national administration liaison center of the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Ministers, Ministers Attached to the Prime Minister’s Office, and political officials under the Prime Minister. Core values of the Prime Minister’s Secretariat are synergy (S), professional (P), and Moral (M). The office is recognized as ethical organizational role model and commits to work for the best interest of Thailand and its people.
Retiring executives, then, shared their thoughts and experiences, on which the Prime Minister committed to take them into consideration. He also affirmed his sincere intent to work for the country and people, and handed down the policy to permanent secretaries and chiefs of ministry-level agencies and equivalent officials to ensure that administrative policies delivered at the Parliament, especially urgent policies (i.e., mitigating people’s plight, reducing cost of living, increasing income of farmers and SMEs, promoting tourism, and addressing corruption and narcotics problems), be concretely implemented.
With regard to the medium and long-term policies, the Prime Minister wanted them to lay down infrastructure and eliminate economic development obstructions, as well as to promote soft power and educational reform, elevate people’s quality of life in all dimensions, and encourage public participation in the promotion of SDGs in line with current and future global development trend. The Prime Minister called for all government agencies to translate policies into action in a prompt, comprehensive, and effective manner in order to upgrade people’s wellbeing. He also emphasized fair transfer of government officials.
After the meeting, the Prime Minister handed souvenirs to permanent secretaries and chiefs of ministry-level agencies and equivalent officials, and joined them for lunch.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/72698