รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on April 18, 2024


วันจันทร์ที่ 29 เมษายน 2567
29/04/2567
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on April 18, 2024
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Act on Land Expropriation for Construction of MTR Yellow Line (Lat Phrao - Samrong Section) in Wang Thonglang District, Bang Kapi District, Suan Luang District, Prawet District, Bang Na District, Bangkok, and Bang Phli District, and Mueang Samut Prakan District, Samut Prakan Province, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Act on Land Expropriation for Construction of MTR Yellow Line (Lat Phrao - Samrong Section) in Wang Thonglang District, Bang Kapi District, Suan Luang District, Prawet District, Bang Na District, Bangkok, and Bang Phli District, and Mueang Samut Prakan District, Samut Prakan Province, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Transport, and ordered for the draft Act to be forwarded to Office of Council of State for scrutiny.
Gist
The draft Act prescribes land expropriation for the construction of MTR Yellow Line (Lat Phrao - Samrong Section) in the areas of Wang Thonglang District, Bang Kapi District, Suan Luang District, Prawet District, Bang Na District, Bangkok, and Bang Phli District, and Mueang Samut Prakan District, Samut Prakan Province. Expropriated lands must be used within 4 years after the draft Act is in effect.
Title: Outcome of Study on Enhancing Civil Society’s Role as Partner in Sustainable Development Conducted by the Senate’s Committee on Political Development and Public Participation
The cabinet acknowledged outcome of study on Enhancing Civil Society’s Role as Partner in Sustainable Development conducted by the Senate’s Committee on Political Development and Public Participation, as proposed by Ministry of Social Development and Human Security.
Gist
Ministry of Social Development and Human Security reported the review of a study on Enhancing Civil Society’s Role as Partner in Sustainable Development conducted by the Senate’s Committee on Political Development and Public Participation, which comprises: (1) policy recommendations to the Government; and (2) policy recommendations to Office of National Economic and Social Development Council, and is of the view that the study and recommendations are in line with the National Strategyn (Level 1), Master Plan under the National Strategy, and the National Reform Plan (level 2), as well as the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The study is part of an assessment on progresses and obstacles for the drafting of Civil Society Promotion and Development Act, B.E. …
Title: Cooperation with Lao PDR on Improvement of Route R12 (R12): Lao PDR’s Thakhek – Na Phao Border Crossing Point Section
The cabinet approved provision of financial assistance to the Government of Lao PDR for the maintenance and improvement of Route R12 (R12): Lao PDR’s Thakhek – Na Phao Border Crossing Point Section, for the total amount of 1,833,747,000 Baht. This is as proposed by Ministry of Finance.
Gist
Improvement of Route R12 (R12) will commence in Thakhek, the capital of Khammouane province in Laos (17 kms in distance from the 3rd Thai-Lao Friendship Bridge in Nakhon Phanom) and end in Na Phao Border Crossing Point which is adjacent to Vietnamese border town of Quang Binh, for the total distance of 147 kms.
The plan is to upgrade the route in accordance with the standard of an Asian Highway, renovate border crossing points and related buildings, improve electrical facilities and safety devices, and develop tourism facilities.
Route R12 (R12) will promote and facilitate logistics and transport connectivity between Thailand, Lao PDR, Vietnam, and China, through shortening of origin - destination transit & customs time from 10 hours to only 4 hours. This will help promote Thailand as trade and investment base of the region and the world.
Title: Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand on Visa Exemption for Holders of National Passports
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Foreign Affairs:
Approved the drafting of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand on Visa Exemption for Holders of National Passports. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not against the principle approved by the cabinet. Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed, and inform the cabinet later of the amendments
Approved Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs (Parnpree Bahiddha-Nukara) or a representative as signatory of the Agreement. Ministry of Foreign Affairs is to issue the Full Powers to the signatory
Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed with the enforcement of the Agreement
Gist
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs (Parnpree Bahiddha-Nukara) is scheduled to pay an official visit to the Republic of Kazakhstan during April 21-24, 2024. Both countries agreed to sign the Agreement on April 23, 2024 to facilitate ordinary passport hoders, and promote people-to-people connectivity between the two countries.
Title: Draft Declaration on Transformative Science, Technology, and Innovation Policies for a Sustainable and Inclusive Future
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation:
Approved the draft Declaration on Transformative Science, Technology, and Innovation Policies for a Sustainable and Inclusive Future. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet for further approval.
Approved for Minister of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation or a representative to adopt the draft Declaration
Gist
The draft Declaration on Transformative Science, Technology, and Innovation Policies for a Sustainable and Inclusive Future acknowledges the importance of engaging trade unions, and business in the design, implementation, and evaluation of science, technology, and innovation policies to achieve Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and enhance economic and social wellbeing of the people. Activities covered under the Declaration include: 1) Designing and driving forward transformative science, technology and innovation policies; 2) Strengthening shared values in international cooperation and technology governance; 3) Inclusivizing science, technology and innovation; and 4) Strengthening evidence base for science, technology, and innovation strategy and policymaking.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/82286