รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on April 23, 2024.


วันจันทร์ที่ 29 เมษายน 2567
The cabinet met on April 23, 2024.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on Election of Senators, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Royal Decree on Election of Senators, B.E. …, as proposed by Office of the Election Commission (EC). The draft Royal Decree has been scrutinized by Office of Council of State.
Gist
According to Section 269 (4) of the Constitution, term of the Senate under this section shall be five years from the date of appointment by the Royal Command. Since the date of appointment was May 11, 2019, term of the current Senate will end on May 10, 2024. Upon expiration of the term of the Senate, however, the Senators shall remain in office to perform duties until there are new Senators.
The selection of Senators shall be made in the form of a Royal Decree, and within five days from the date the Royal Decree comes into force, the Election Commission shall prescribe the date of commencement of the selection which shall beno later than thirty days as from the date such Royal Decree comes into force. Such prescription shall be published in the Government Gazette, and the provisions of section 104 shall apply mutatis mutandis.
According to the draft Royal Decree, timeline for the election of Senators is as follows:
May 13, 2024 Application date for the candidacy of new senators
June 9, 2024 Election at the district level
June 16, 2024 Election at the provincial level
June 26, 2024 Election at the national level
July 2, 2024 Announcement of the election result
Title: Request for approval of ordination without leave for all types of government officials, government employees, permanent and temporary employees of government agencies, and state enterprise employees
The cabinet approved the ordination without leave for all types of government officials, government employees, permanent and temporary employees of government agencies, and state enterprise employees who participate in the ordination program to commemorate the auspicious occasion of His Majesty the King's 6th Cycle Birthday Anniversary on July 28, 2024. The ordination period will be from July 12 to August 3, 2024 (23 days), during which their leave for ordination will be taken as work days (with full salary), and will not be counted as leave of absence. This is as proposed by Office of Permanent Secretary, Office of the Prime Minister.
Title: Memorandum of Understanding between The Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Seafarers Excellence Network (APEC SEN) and Marine Department of Thailand
The cabinet approved the Memorandum of Understanding between The Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Seafarers Excellence Network (APEC SEN) and Marine Department of Thailand. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Transport may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Director-General of the Marine Department or a representative is authorized as signatory of the MOU. This is as proposed by Ministry of Transport.
Gist
Memorandum of Understanding between The Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Seafarers Excellence Network (APEC SEN) and Marine Department of Thailand is aimed to promote seamless growth of seafaring industry in the Asia Pacific, taking into accountgender equality. The MOU will take effect for 5 years and will be enforced upon the signing of both parties.
Title: Thailand’s Hosting of the 6th Asian Indoor and Martial Arts Games, 2021
The cabinet acknowledged postponement of the dates for the 6th Asian Indoor and Martial Arts Games, 2021. The new dates will be November 21-30, 2024. This is as proposed by Ministry of Tourism and Sports.
Gist
The 6th Asian Indoor and Martial Arts Games, 2021 has been postponed three times from the original year of organization (2021) due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The latest postponement from February 24 to March 6, 2024 to November 21-30, 2024 is to facilitate preparation of all athletes for the 33rd Summer Olympic Games to be held in France during July 26 and August 11, 2024. All 45 member countries of the Olympic Council of Asia (OCA) have been informed of the postponement.
Title: Draft MOU on Tourism Cooperation between Ministry of Tourism and Sports of the Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Civil Aviation and Tourism of People's Republic of Bangladesh
The cabinet approved the draft MOU on Tourism Cooperation between Ministry of Tourism and Sports of the Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Civil Aviation and Tourism of People's Republic of Bangladesh. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Tourism and Sports may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Tourism and Sports or a representative is authorized as signatory of the MOU.
Gist
The draft MOU on Tourism Cooperation between Ministry of Tourism and Sports of the Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Civil Aviation and Tourism of People's Republic of Bangladesh will allow the two countries to exchange knowledge, experiences, and best practices in areas related tourism. The MOU will take effect for 4 years and will be enforced upon the signing of both parties.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/82321