รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Royal Command on Removal and Appointment of Ministers


วันจันทร์ที่ 29 เมษายน 2567
29/04/2567
พิมพ์
Royal Command on Removal and Appointment of Ministers
Royal Command on Removal and Appointment of Ministers
Royal Command
Removal and Appointment of Ministers
---------------------------------------
His Majesty Phra Bat Somdet Phra Poramenthra Ramathibodi Sisin Maha Vajiralongkorn Phra Vajira Klao Chao Yu Hua
His Majesty Phra Bat Somdet Phra Poramenthra Ramathibodi Sisin Maha Vajiralongkorn Phra Vajira Klao Chao Yu Hua has graciously given a Royal Command for the announcement to be made that:
Pursuant to the Royal Command dated 22 August B.E. 2566 appointing Mr. Srettha Thavisin as Prime Minister, and the Royal Command dated 3 September B.E. 2566 appointing the council of ministers, the Prime Minister has humbly informed His Majesty that certain ministerships need to be adjusted for the interests of state administration;
On the authority of Sections 158 of the Constitution of the Kingdom of Thailand, His Majesty therefore graciously endorsed the removal and appointment of ministers forthwith:
Removal of Ministership
Mr. Somsak Thepsutin                            Deputy Prime Minister
Mr. Parnpree Bahiddha-Nukara         Deputy Prime Minister
Ms. Puangpetch Chunla-ead            Minister Attached to Prime Minister’s Office
Mr. Srettha Thavisin                       Minister of Finance
Mr. Jakkapong Sangmanee              Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs
Ms. Sudawan Wangsupakitkosol      Minister of Tourism and Sports
Mr. Chaiya Promma                      Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Cooperatives
Mr. Anucha Nakasai                        Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Cooperatives
Mr. Sermsak Pongpanich                Minister of Culture
Mr. Cholnan Srikaew                      Minister of Public Health
Appointment of Ministership
Mr. Suriya Jungrungreangkit           Deputy Prime Minister (another position)
Mr. Pichai Chunhavajira                 Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance
Mr. Jakkapong Sangmanee              Minister Attached to Prime Minister’s Office
Mr. Pichit Chuenban                      Minister Attached to Prime Minister’s Office
Ms. Jiraporn Sindhuprai                  Minister Attached to Prime Minister’s Office
Mr. Paopoom Rojanasakul              Deputy Minister of Finance
Mr. Parnpree Bahiddha-Nukara         Minister of Foreign Affairs
Mr. Sermsak Pongpanich                Minister of Tourism and Sports
Mr. Atthakorn Sirilatthayakorn         Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Cooperatives
Mr. Suchart Chomklin                    Deputy Minister of Commerce
Ms. Sudawan Wangsupakitkosol      Minister of Culture
Mr. Somsak Thepsutin                            Minister of Public Health
Announced on 27 August B.E. 2566, being the 9th year of the present Reign.
Countersigned by
Mr. Srettha Thavisin
Prime Minister

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/82312