รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Gov. Spokesperson: Government promotes Thai boxing (Muay Thai) one of Thailand’s soft powers, at the international level.


วันศุกร์ที่ 1 ธันวาคม 2566
Gov. Spokesperson: Government promotes Thai boxing (Muay Thai) one of Thailand’s soft powers, at the international level.
Gov. Spokesperson: Government promotes Thai boxing (Muay Thai) one of Thailand’s soft powers, at the international level.
November 30, 2023, Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharoke disclosed that the government, with the cooperation of the Sports Authority of Thailand, the National Sports Development Fund (NSDF), the Boxing Sports Committee, the Amateur Boxing Association of Thailand, the Professional Boxing Association of Thailand, and the International Federation of Muaythai Associations (IFMA), aimed to promote the arts of Thai boxing (Muay Thai) to foreign countries in order to support the Muay Thai sports industry and distribute it internationally as a soft power. Moreover, the Thai government is ready to expand Muay Thai products and services to increase the income of people related to Muay Thai and the economic value of the country through the Muay Thai industry.
Government Spokesperson revealed that the arts of Muay Thai have been promoted in various places, such as Budapest, Hungary, on September 15 - 17, 2023 and Guangzhou, People's Republic of China, on September 22 – 24, 2023, etc. Most recently, there has been publicizing the competition of "East Asian Muay Thai Championship 2023" on November 23 – 26, 2023, at Queen Elizabeth Stadium, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, People's Republic of China, which was the biggest Thai boxing competition in Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, People's Republic of China. There were boxers from 9 nations/territories, namely Bangladesh, India, South Korea, Mongolia, Macau, Japan, Taiwan, China and Hong Kong, participating in the competition.
In addition, Thailand has set One Standard Muaythai (OSM) for all involved parties to adhere to. Also, provided details of the ancient art of Muay Thai and Khita Muay Thai and opened a clinic to teach Muay Thai skills. These had a good response from the Hong Kong Muay Thai Sports Club and Association in sending Muay Thai athletes to participate in the training. The trainees had learned Muay Thai skills, both theoretical and practical, directly from the experts from Thailand.
The Government Spokesperson emphasized that the government is grateful for all actions taken to support and promote Muay Thai, which will become even more popular in accordance with the Soft Power Promotion Policy. The government will push forward Thai boxing to be included in the 2023 Olympic Games in Brisbane City, Australia. Muay Thai is a potential country’s soft power, which will support the boxing industry internationally in a comprehensive manner to increase income for Thai people.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/75501