รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM congratulates Thai restaurants featured in MICHELIN Guide Thailand’s 2023 Bib Gourmand selection


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 24 พฤศจิกายน 2565
พิมพ์
​PM congratulates Thai restaurants featured in MICHELIN Guide Thailand’s 2023 Bib Gourmand selection
​PM congratulates Thai restaurants featured in MICHELIN Guide Thailand’s 2023 Bib Gourmand selection
November 24, 2022, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha congratulated over 189 restaurants throughout the country that have been featured in the “MICHELIN Guide Thailand’s 2023 Bib Gourmand selection”, and expressed pleasure with the country being world’s “ultimate street food haven”.
The 2023 Bib Gourmand selection features 189 budget-friendly dining venues. Out of all that made the list, 53 are first-time entries, while 6 are promoted entries. Province wise, 82 restaurants are in Bangkok and surrounding cities, 13 in Phra Nakhon Si Ayutthaya, 27 in Chiang Mai, 23 in Phuket, 11 in Phang-Nga, 9 in Nakhon Ratchasima, 6 in Ubon Ratchathani, 7 in Udon Thani, and 11 in Khon Kaen.
These restaurants must pass 5 evaluation criteria, that is, 1) quality of the ingredients used; 2) mastery of flavor and cooking techniques; 3) personality of chef in his cuisine; 4) value for money; and 5) consistency between visits. The restaurants listed in the MICHELIN Guide Thailand’s 2023 Bib Gourmand selection represent notable quality of Thai cuisine, especially street food. According to the MICHELIN Guides, “high proportion of street food eateries on the Bib Gourmand list marks Thailand’s quintessential culinary scene as an ultimate street food haven for budget-savvy diners. Street food is practically a savory way of life in Thailand. It is ubiquitous throughout the country, offering an incredible variety of unique, flavorful dishes.”
The Thai Government has placed great importance on promoting gastronomy tourism. Recognition from the MICHELIN Guide Thailand is a way to attract both Thai and foreign tourists, and increase economic value to localities and the country as a whole. The Government Spokesperson added that the meal served at the 2022 APEC Summit Gala Dinner has impressed economic leaders a great deal. This demonstrates the Government’s success in incorporating Thailand’s soft power into the international event, which will also contribute to the country’s tourism and consumption sectors.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/61957