รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Paetongtarn Shinawatra appointed as 31st Prime Minister


วันจันทร์ที่ 19 สิงหาคม 2567
19/08/2567
พิมพ์
Paetongtarn Shinawatra appointed as 31st Prime Minister
Paetongtarn Shinawatra appointed as 31st Prime Minister
August 18, 2024, at 09.29 hrs, at the headquarters of Pheu Thai Party, Ms. Paetongtarn Shinawatra attended a ceremony to receive the Royal Command on Appointment of the Prime Minister. Secretary-General of the House of Representatives delivered and officially announced the Royal Command as follows:
Announcement on the
Appointment of the Prime Minister
___________________
Phra Bat Somdet Phra Poramenthra Ramathibodi Sisin Maha Vajiralongkorn Phra Vajira Klao Chao Yu Hua has graciously given a Royal Command for the announcement to be made that following the House of Representatives’ resolution on 16th August B.E. 2567 (2024) approving the appointment of Ms. Paetongtarn Shinawatra as Prime Minister with a majority of votes from the total number of existing members of the House of Representatives.
On the authority of Section 158 of the Constitution of the Kingdom of Thailand, His Majesty therefore graciously appoints Ms. Paetongtarn Shinawatra as Prime Minister to administer state affairs forthwith.
Announced on 16th August B.E. 2567 (2024),
Being the 9th year of the present Reign.
Countersigned by
Mr. Wanmuhamadnoor Matha
Speaker of the House of Representatives
Newly appointed Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra expressed her humble gratitude for His Majesty the King’s endorsement to appoint her as Prime Minister, and stated that it was the utmost honor of her life and entire family. She also pledged to perform the duty to the best of her ability with honesty and in good faith for the interest of the people and country, and in accordance with His Majesty’s first royal command and the Constitution of the Kingdom of Thailand.
The Prime Minister thanked members of the House of Representatives for entrusting her with state administration duty. She was well aware of the great responsibility, as 31st Prime Minister of Thailand, to lead the country forward through all obstacles, and solve people’s plights and bread-and-butter concerns to improve the quality of life of the Thai people. In the remaining 3 years as head of the country’s Executive, she committed to work together with the Legislative, and open her heart to listen to all opinions in order for the country to move ahead in a steady manner.
The Prime Minister added that this great mission could not be accomplished by the Prime Minister alone, and hoped to join forces with the Thai people from all generations and capable individuals from all sectors, be it, members of the cabinet, coalition parties, civil servants, the private sector, and all fellow citizens.
She also committed to promote capacity building and enhance people’s skills, and make every square inch of Thailand a place for Thais to dare to dream, dare to create and dare to determine their own future. As the Prime Minister, she would perform her duty to the best of her ability, making Thailand a country of equal opportunity and happiness for all the Thai people.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/87221