รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Southern border kids happily attend 2023 National Children’s Day event organized by SBPAC


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 12 มกราคม 2566
12/01/2566
พิมพ์
​Southern border kids happily attend 2023 National Children’s Day event organized by SBPAC
​Southern border kids happily attend 2023 National Children’s Day event organized by SBPAC
January 12, 2023, Deputy Government Spokesperson Ratchada Thanadirek, in her capacity as member of Government’s special representatives for solving problems in the Southern border provinces, disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha expressed appreciation toward all concerned sectors for supporting the organization of the 2023 National Children’s Day activities at Southern Border Provinces Administrative Centre (SBPAC), which was attended by approx. 1,000 local children from the vulnerability groups, i.e., children with special needs, orphans, children from the poor families, and children whose parents are involved in security situation. The event featured a number of activities, such as mobile planetarium, arts, food, and music, and gift giving of over 17,000 pieces. The gifts will also be distributed to kids across the Southern border area.
Sponsorship and support provided by both public and private agencies for SBPAC’s 2023 National Children’s Day event demonstrates that all concerned sides are eager to give children and youths in the Southern border provinces happiness and fun, just like kids elsewhere. SBPAC, as the leading agency, has been working together with other agencies to promote child development in the Southern border area by addressing malnutrition in children, enhancing their language skills and scientific knowledge, and promoting multi-cultural coexistence, etc.
The Deputy Government
Spokesperson stated that the Prime Minister was pleased to learn that the kids were happy attending the event. He also wished them good health and happiness to become children of the next generation with the bright future who are the driving forces for national development and sustainable peace. The Government strives to implement its policies to ensure that no one is left behind, especially the vulnerability groups, and to minimize social disparity.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/63678