รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM calls on vice ministers to proactively address misinformation that misleads public understanding


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 13 กุมภาพันธ์ 2568
13/02/2568
พิมพ์
PM calls on vice ministers to proactively address misinformation that misleads public understanding
PM calls on vice ministers to proactively address misinformation that misleads public understanding
Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed that on February 11, 2025, at 1330hrs, at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra chaired a meeting to hand over policies and missions to vice ministers. Also participating in the meeting were Secretary-General to the Prime Minister Prommin Lertsuridej, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister for Political Affairs Somkid Chueakong (as Secretary to the Committee of Vice Ministers), Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister for Administration Chayan Muangsong, and Advisor to the Prime Minister for Strategy and Planning Surapong Malee. Gist of the meeting is as follows:
The Prime Minister congratulated vice ministers for being appointed in the positions, and emphasized the importance of their duties to support respective ministers on policy implementation, i.e., pushing forward national development, increasing revenues and reducing expenses. Vice ministers are expected to work together in various dimensions, according to the missions of respective ministries, to effectively disseminate accurate information on policy implementation progress.
There has been misinformation and political manipulation which mislead public understanding on the Government’s policy and operation. Vice ministers are urged to play an important role in clarifying distorted information to ensure better understanding of the public and their awareness on what the Government wants to change or achieve through its policies. Although operation direction of each ministry may be different, miscommunication must be minimized to create understanding and confidence among the public.
According to the Prime Minister, vice ministers’ support in all aspects is important to their respective ministers. Assistance in liaising, compiling data, and collecting information obtained from each local visit are crucial to the minister’s efficient and tangible effort to work according to the Government’s policies. Vice ministers must place importance on accelerating strategies and policy implementation. Should any problem arise, joint efforts of all concerned parties will be needed to tackle and seek solutions to the problem.
The Prime Minister also urged vice ministers to closely monitor related discussions and questions raised at the parliament, and supply the ministers with necessary information for their clarifications. As this year is regarded as the “Year of Opportunity and Economic Stimulation”, she called on everyone to prioritize economic issues. Each ministry must urgently push forward measures that help stimulate the economy and reduce the burden on the people, as well as closely monitor the implementations in accordance with the Prime Minister’s orders.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/93348