รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with Egypt’s Grand Imam Sheikh of Al-Azhar 


วันพุธที่ 10 กรกฎาคม 2567
10/07/2567
พิมพ์
PM meets with Egypt’s Grand Imam Sheikh of Al-Azhar
PM meets with Egypt’s Grand Imam Sheikh of Al-Azhar
July 8, 2024, at 1030hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin met with Professor Dr. Ahmed Mohamed Ahmed El-Tayeb, Grand Imam Sheikh of Al-Azhar, Arab Republic of Egypt, on the occasion of the latter’s official visit to Thailand as guest of the Thai Government during July 5-8, 2024. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure to meet with Grand Imam Sheik of Al-Azhar. His visit is to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the diplomatic relations between the two countries this year. The Prime Minister hoped that the visit would further strengthen relations and cooperation between Thailand and Egypt.
The Grand Imam Sheik of Al-Azhar thanked the Prime Minister and Thai people for the warm welcome. He was pleased to learn about the readiness of all Thai sectors in tightening bilateral relations between Thailand and Egypt. He hoped that the two countries further enhance cooperation in various dimensions, and jointly organize activities to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the diplomatic relations.
Both parties also discussed cooperation in the areas of mutual interest:
On education, religion, and culture, the Prime Minister thanked Egypt and the Al-Azhar University for continuously granting scholarships to Thai students. The Grand Imam Sheik of Al-Azhar informed the Prime Minister that currently, there are approx. 3,000 Thai students studying at the university, of whom 612 are scholarship recipients from Thailand. Egypt also awards 160 special scholarships per year to Thailand, of which 80 are in the field of religion and Islamic studies, and another 80 are given to students in science, medicine, dentistry and pharmacy. A team of 18 Egyptian religious teachers have also been sent to Thailand to support Arabic language and religious study at Muslim schools in the country.
Both the Prime Minister and the Grand Imam Sheik of Al-Azhar were also pleased with the drafting of MOU on the establishment of an Arabic language center in partnership with Al-Azhar University in Thailand for students aiming to pursue their studies at the University and those who are interested in advancing their Arabic language. The Prime Minister emphasized the importance of Arabic learning as Thailand is a major destination among the Middle Eastern people for medical tourism.
With regard to international cooperation, the Grand Imam Sheik of Al-Azhar commended the role of Thailand and the Thai Prime Minister at the international stage. Both parties exchanged views on the situation in the Middle East, and agreed upon seeking common solutions to the problem for sustainable stability and peace. The Prime Minister emphasized Thailand’s support for peaceful solution in line with the Two-State Solution, and called on all concerned parties to make efforts in seeking a sustainable and peaceful solution to the problem. He also thanked Egypt for assisting in the release of Thai hostages, and requested for further assistance in securing the remaining Thai hostages.
The Prime Minister was also pleased to share that the Thai Government will provide financial support of 100,000 dollars to the Egyptian Red Crescent for humanitarian assistance of people in the Gaza Strip, which will be coordinated through the Royal Thai Embassy in Cairo in due course. The Grand Imam Sheik of Al-Azhar thanked Thailand for the financial support, and agreed to work with the Thai Government in seeking a sustainable and peaceful solution to the problem.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/85639