รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand and Ireland to deepen comprehensive relations and cooperation for mutual interest


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 9 กุมภาพันธ์ 2566
09/02/2566
พิมพ์
Thailand and Ireland to deepen comprehensive relations and cooperation for mutual interest
Thailand and Ireland to deepen comprehensive relations and cooperation for mutual interest
February 8, 2023, at 0930hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Patrick Bourne, Ambassador of Ireland to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his assumption of duty. Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed Irish Ambassador and affirmed Thailand’s full support on his tenure in the country. He also extended his invitation to the Prime Minister of Ireland to visit Thailand at a good opportunity to deepen relations and push forward bilateral cooperation between the two countries in a tangible manner. The Prime Minister also congratulated the Irish counterpart on assumption of the premiership. As the year 2025 will mark the 50th anniversary of diplomatic relations, the Prime Minister hoped that there be more exchange of visits at all levels.
The Irish Ambassador expressed pleasure to be tenured in Thailand, and was of the view that the two countries have great potential to further expand cooperation. He committed to take on the duty to elevate relations between Thailand and Ireland in all levels and dimensions.
Both parties also discussed issues of mutual interest:
The Prime Minister and Irish Ambassador agreed on an increase of economic cooperation. The Prime Minister affirmed Thailand’s readiness to become Ireland’s trade and investment hub in the ASEAN region, and extended an invitation to Irish businesses to consider investing in the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC) in the S-Curve industries that they have expertise. The Irish Ambassador informed about trade and investment cooperation advancement with the recent increase of engagement of the Irish investors in Thailand.
Thailand and Ireland are also ready to reinforce education cooperation. The Prime Minister hoped for Ireland’s support on student exchange programs, and thanked the country for its continued cooperation on higher education with Thailand, especially through the HRH-UCD Scholarship conferred to HRH Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn since 2015. He hoped that Ireland provides more scholarships to Thai students, and increase education cooperation with Thailand.
Both parties also came to terms on tightening of cultural, innovative, and people-to-people exchange and cooperation. The Prime Minister commended Ireland Embassy in Thailand for actively promoting cultural relations through various campaigns to reinforce people-to-people relations and to draw Irish tourists to Thailand. The Ambassador also emphasized the importance of people-to-people relations promotion, and hoped for post-COVID interaction normalization.
With regards to ASEAN – EU relations, both parties congratulated the success of ASEAN-EU Commemorative Summit, held in Brussels, Belgium, and the signing of Thai-EU Partnership and Cooperation Agreement (PCA). They strongly hoped that Thailand and EU would resume FTA negotiation soon. Thailand also thanked EU for close cooperation on sustainable and green development, and affirmed the country’s commitment to push forward the BCG Economic Model in a tangible manner. The Prime Minister and Irish Ambassador also constructively discussed current international issues, and came to terms that peace talk would be the best solution for global peace and security.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/64732