รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM to take field visit in Maha Sarakham


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 19 ธันวาคม 2567
19/12/2567
พิมพ์
PM to take field visit in Maha Sarakham
PM to take field visit in Maha Sarakham
December 19, 2024, Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed that Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra is scheduled to take a field visit to Khon Kaen and Maha Sarakham provinces to follow up and hand down the policies on water resources management, both short-term, medium-term and long-term, to tackle flood and drought in a tangible manner. Her delegation for the field visit includes Deputy Minister of Interior Theerarat Samrejvanich and Minister Attached to the Prime Minister’s Office Jiraporn Sindhuprai.
Upon arrival at Huai Nam Khem Floodgate (D5), Yang Tha Chaeng Subdistrict, Kosum Phisai District, Maha Sarakham Province, the Prime Minister will listen to a report on water management from executives of the Royal Irrigation Department, Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, before handing down policies and orders regarding flood solutions in Chi River Basin, and water management in the local areas.
In the afternoon, the Prime Minister will travel to Chalermprakiat Auditorium, Mahasarakham University in Mueang District to follow up on the implementation of One District One Scholarship (ODOS) program and Village and Community Potential Development (SML) project, which are the key initiatives announced during the Prime Minister’s recent unveiling of vision under the campaign “2025 Empowering Thais: A Real Possibility”. There she will listen to possible approaches and obstacles, and goals for concrete success of the programs in the Northeastern region, as well as in other regions.
The Prime Minister will, then, chair a meeting on promotion of tourism and local traditions in the Northeast, which is part of the Government's policy to increase touristic and economic values to Thai culture and tradition. The Prime Minister will also preside over the opening of the "On Son Long Drum of Wapi People: Local Heritage and 142-Year Legend of Wapi Pathum” in front of Wapi Pathum District, Mahasarakham. According to the Prime Minister, Thailand is internationally renowned for its beauty and attractions that are worth visiting. The Government strives to promote year-round tourism through cultural activities, among others.
This field visit is aimed to drive forward the Government’s new and ongoing policies to address urgent national challenges and pave the way for long-term development. The “One District, One Scholarship” (ODOS) program will be funded by lottery revenues to expand educational opportunities for underprivileged students.
The Government will also introduce the “1 District, 1 Summer Camp” initiative, enabling students to participate in short-term overseas language training. The SML project will empower local communities to identify and address their own challenges, supported by funds distributed through village and urban community networks.
The Government Spokesperson added that the "On Son Long Drum of Wapi People: Local Heritage and 142-Year Legend of Wapi Pathum”, which is regularly held in December each year, is part of an effort of Maha Sarakham locals to preserve local arts, culture and traditions, especially the long drums. Such the event will enhance Isan’s economic, social and cultural potentials, thereby, attracting tourist and businessmen alike, in line

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/91556