รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM meets with chairman of Toyota Motor Corporation Japan


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 19 ธันวาคม 2567
​PM meets with chairman of Toyota Motor Corporation Japan
​PM meets with chairman of Toyota Motor Corporation Japan
December 18, 2024, at 10.00 hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Mr. Akio Toyoda, chairman of Toyota Motor Corporation Japan, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra. Deputy Government Spokesperson Karom Phonphonklang disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed and expressed pleasure to meet with chairman of Toyota Motor Corporation Japan. She affirmed the Thai Government’s readiness to receive and exchange ideas that are in line with the needs of both automotive manufacturers and buyers to achieve mutual economic benefits. Investment promotion will also assure support for Japan’s manufacturing sector in Thailand, as well as Thai entrepreneurs in related industries and parts manufacturers, to remain competitive and sustainably develop new industries, especially EVs, while promoting the use of green energy.
The chairman of Toyota Motor Corporation Japan expressed appreciation toward the Prime Minister and the Thai government for their long-term support. Toyota has been investing and operating in Thailand for over 60 years. The country has become its important production base for commercial and other types of vehicles. The company is also confident in the quality and production standards of automotive components in Thailand, in line with those of Toyota vehicle manufacturing in Japan.
Both parties also discussed Thailand’s automotive industry development and promotion, and agreed on the implementation of policies and measures that cater the needs of both automotive and parts manufacturers and vehicle users, particularly hybrid vehicle manufacturing. The Prime Minister emphasized the Government’s commitment to facilitate automotive and parts manufacturers for the advancement of Thai automotive industry. The chairman of Toyota Motor Corporation Japan would be pleased to cooperate with the Thai Government in contributing to the growth of Thai automotive manufacturing and export.
After the meeting, Mr. Akio Toyoda and delegation attended the Prime Minister's Industry Award 2024, which was presided over by the Prime Minister at Santi Maitri Building, Government House. Toyota Motor Thailand Co., Ltd. received the awards in 3 categories: 1) Prime Minister's BEST industry Award, 2) MIND Ambassador Award, and 3) Future Industry and Services for its factory in Gateway, Chachoengsao Province.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/91544