รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM: Thailand stands ready to work with international community to promote and protect human rights for all persons


วันพุธที่ 13 ธันวาคม 2566
​PM: Thailand stands ready to work with international community to promote and protect human rights for all persons
​PM: Thailand stands ready to work with international community to promote and protect human rights for all persons
December 12, 2023, at 15.25 hrs, at the PMOC Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin keynote remarks at the opening ceremony of the Leaders’ Segment of the commemoration of 75th Anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights broadcast live from Bangkok to the high-level meeting held in Geneva. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of his remark as follows:
The Prime Minister was pleased to join the ceremony to commemorate the 75th Anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), and stated that this Declaration provided the foundation for international human rights law. He also affirmed the Thai Government’s unwavering commitment to advance the promotion and protection of human rights. Throughout the past 75 years, UDHR remains an important instrument in response to the world’s multiple challenges, be it, peace, security, development, and/or environment, which pose the risk for the large part of global populations to be left behind.
The Prime Minister took the opportunity to outline Thailand’s visions on how the international community could chart a way forward to further advance human rights and address present global challenges:
First is to strengthen human rights architecture at all levels to provide better protection, especially for the vulnerability groups. Political will is key. Broadest participation helps ensure that measures respond to the actual needs of the people, and bring results on the ground. Too much polarization in international fora will hold us all back. Multilateral fora like this, should be used for hearing out and reaching out, in order to settle diverging views, find solutions, and enhance cooperation.
Second is to ensure that the Human Rights Council (UNHRC) and other human rights mechanisms are well equipped. The Prime Minister commend the Council’s recent recognition of the right to a clean, healthy, and sustainable environment, as well as discussions on the impact of climate change on human rights. Environmental concerns and climate change hinder not only the enjoyment of human rights, but also the livelihood and survival of countries and peoples.
Third is to utilize technology and innovation to advance human rights. Technology can be used to ensure wider access to basic rights, such as the right to education and the right to health. It can also be used to promote human rights education. At the same time, it is wise to be mindful of the risks posed by technologies. Open, free, and secure digital future needs to be built, while utilizing technology to advance human rights for all.
Fourth is to leverage technical cooperation and capacity building to promote and protect human rights. Often times, human rights violations occur from the lack of knowledge and capability. By sharing best practices and learning from one another, we can help close those gaps and strengthen human rights implementation.
Fifth, as a key discussion topic today is “regional human rights mechanisms”, I would like to reiterate its importance. Such mechanisms help bridge the gap between national and international human rights protection systems, and ensure that all persons can find protection. Cooperation between the UN and regional mechanisms are vital, and need to be strengthened.
Lastly, everyone can make a difference. Constructive and meaningful engagement is crucial. The international community must work together despite differences.
According to the Prime Minister, for this reason, Thailand is presenting its candidature for membership of the Human Rights Council for the term 2025-2027. The country stands ready to work with all partners and the international community, to further promote and protect human rights for all persons.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/76031