รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on November 7, 2023. 


วันจันทร์ที่ 13 พฤศจิกายน 2566
12/11/2566
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on November 7, 2023.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Revision of Office of the Prime Minister’s Regulation on International Economic Policy
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Office of the Prime Minister’s Regulation on International Economic Policy (No. …), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Commerce.
Gist
The draft Office of the Prime Minister’s Regulation on International Economic Policy (No. …), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Commerce, is a revision to the Regulation on International Economic Policy, B.E. 2546 and related amendment. It prescribes revision on composition of the International Economic Policy Committee. According to the revision, permanent secretary to Ministry of Foreign Affairs is added as committee member and co-secretary with permanent secretary to Ministry of Commerce. Director-general of the Department of International Economic Affairs is also added as committee member and co-deputy secretary with director of the Office of Trade Policy and Strategy.
Title: Outcomes of 16th Conference of the ASEAN Ministers Responsible for Information, 20th Conference of ASEAN Senior Officials Meeting on Information, and related meetings
The cabinet acknowledged the report on outcome of the 16th Conference of the ASEAN Ministers Responsible for Information, 20th Conference of ASEAN Senior Officials Meeting on Information, and related meetings, as proposed by Office of the Prime Minister, through the Department of Public Relations (PRD).
Gist
The Thai delegation for the 16th Conference of the ASEAN Ministers Responsible for Information was led by Minister Attached to Prime Minister’s Office Puangpetch Chunla-ead, and the Thai delegation for 20th Conference of ASEAN Senior Officials Meeting on Information was led by PRD Deputy Director-General Sudruthai Lertkasem. The meetings were held during September 19-23, 2023, in Da Nang, Socialist Republic of Vietnam.
Five documents have been adopted as outcome of the meetings:
Vision Statement by AMR-ASEAN 2035: Toward a Transformative, Responsive and Resilient Information and Media Sector
Danang Declaration on “Media: From Information to Knowledge for a Resilient and Responsive ASEAN”
Guideline on Management of Government Information in Combating Fake News and Disinformation in the Media
Plan of Action of ASEAN Task Force on Fake News
Joint Media Statement: 16th Conference of the ASEAN Ministers Responsible for Information & 7th Conference of the ASEAN Plus Three Ministers Responsible for Information
Minister Attached to Prime Minister’s Office Puangpetch Chunla-ead also had bilateral meetings with heads of the delegation from Vietnam and Cambodia.
Title: Joint Ministerial Statement of the 30th APEC Finance Ministers’ Meeting
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Joint Ministerial Statement of the 30th APEC Finance Ministers’ Meeting. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Finance may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Finance or a representative is authorized to adopt the Joint Ministerial Statement. This is as proposed by Ministry of Finance.
Gist
The 30th APEC Finance Ministers’ Meeting will be held on November 13, 2023 in San Francisco, U.S., under the overarching theme of “Creating a Resilient and Sustainable Future for All”. Issues to be discussed will include: 1) Modern Supply Side Economics; 2) Responsible Innovation and Development of Digital Assets; and 3) Sustainable Finance.
The draft Joint Ministerial Statement of the 30th APEC Finance Ministers’ Meeting demonstrates joint intent of APEC Finance Ministers in promoting fiscal and financial cooperation for sustainable and inclusive growth of APEC.
Title: Outcome documents for APEC Ministerial Meeting (AMM) and APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting (AELM) 2023
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Foreign Affairs:
Approved 2 draft documents, namely, (1) Joint Statement of APEC Ministerial Meeting (AMM) 2023; and (2) 2023 APEC Leaders’ Declaration. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ministry of Commerce may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
Minister of Foreign Affairs or a representative, and Minister of Commerce or a representative are authorized to adopt the Joint Statement of APEC Ministerial Meeting (AMM) 2023
The Prime Minister or a representative is authorized to adopt the 2023 Leaders’ Declaration
The 2023 APEC Ministerial Meeting (AMM) and APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting (AELM) will be held in San Francisco, U.S., on November 14-15, 2023, and November 15-17, 2023, respectively, under the theme: “Creating a Resilient and Sustainable Future for All”.
Title: Draft Protocol on Bilateral Negotiations between Thailand and Timor-Leste Regarding Timor-Leste's Accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO)
The cabinet approved the proposals of Ministry of Commerce as follows:
Approved the essence of the draft Protocol on Bilateral Negotiations between Thailand and Timor-Leste Regarding Timor-Leste's Accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO)
Assigned Ambassador and Permanent Representative of Thailand to the WTO and WIPO or a representative to sign the Protocol
Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Commerce may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet
Title: Request for Approval on Outcome Documents of the Twenty-Ninth ASEAN Transport Ministers Meeting (29th ATM)
The cabinet approved 17 outcome documents (for adoption) and 1 document (for signing) of the Twenty-Ninth ASEAN Transport Ministers Meeting (29th ATM). Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Transport may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Transport or a representative is authorized to adopt 17 documents, and Minister of Tourism and Sports is authorized to co-adopt document no. 13. Minister of Transport or a representative is authorized to sign the document no. 18. Ministry of Foreign Affairs is assigned to issue the Full Powers to Minister of Transport or a representative for the signing of the 18th document. This is as proposed by Ministry of Transport.
Gist
The 17 outcome documents (for adoption) and 1 document (for signing) of the Twenty-Ninth ASEAN Transport Ministers Meeting (29th ATM) are as follows:
The Guidelines on Smart Ports
Recommendations to Ensure Continuity of Port Terminal Operations during Crisis and Recommendations on Measures Pertaining to Issues on Crew Change and Repatriation during Crisis
Policy Recommendations to Improve Electric Vehicle (EV) Infrastructure and Charging Stations in ASEAN
Guideline for Evaluation Capacity/Performance of Container Terminals in the ASEAN Region
Completion Report of the Development of VTS Operator’s Capacity Programme (2020-2021)
Draft Feasibility Study on Building a Comprehensive Strategy for ASEAN Smart Mobility
Joint Declaration on Comprehensive Cooperation for Smart Mobility between Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and the Republic of Korea (ROK)
The Luang Prabang Action Plan under the ASEAN-Japan Transport Partnership (AJTP)
The Twenty-Ninth ASEAN Transport Ministers Meeting (29th ATM) Joint Ministerial Statement
The Twenty-Second ASEAN-China Transport Ministers Meeting (22rd ATM+China) Joint Ministerial Statement
The Twenty-First ASEAN-Japan Transport Ministers Meeting (21st ATM+Japan) Joint Ministerial Statement
The Fourteenth ASEAN and Republic of Korea Transport Ministers Meeting (14th ASEAN+ROK)
Interface Meeting between ASEAN Tourism Ministers and ASEAN Transport Ministers Joint Ministerial Statement
Final Draft - Project Report on the GNSS Implementation Plan Training in ASEAN (GIPTA)
ASEAN Sustainable Aviation Action Plan (ASAAP)
ASEAN Air Navigation Service Master Plan, Third Edition
Protocol 3 Safety Oversight Capabilities for National Aviation Administration
Memorandum of Understanding on the Development of ASEAN Highway Network

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/74600