รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Govt to host Grand Reception in honor of H.M. King on occasion of Coronation Day


วันอังคารที่ 6 พฤษภาคม 2568
06/05/2568
พิมพ์
Govt to host Grand Reception in honor of H.M. King on occasion of Coronation Day
Govt to host Grand Reception in honor of H.M. King on occasion of Coronation Day
May 3, 2025, Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed that on May 4, 2025, at 0915hrs, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra is scheduled to pay homage to statues of the previous kings of the Chakri dynasty at Prasat Phra Thep Bidon (Royal Pantheon) and the Emerald Buddha at Wat Phra Si Rattana Satsadaram (Temple of the Emerald Buddha). At 1000hrs, the Prime Minister will have an audience with Their Majesties the King and Queen at the royal ceremony held on occasion of the Coronation Day at Amarin Vinijchai Throne Hall in the Grand Palace complex.
Later at 1900hrs, the Government will host the Grand Reception in honor of His Majesty King Rama X on the auspicious occasion of the Coronation Day. The event will be telecasted live via the Television Pool of Thailand.
On this occasion, the Government invited the Privy Councilors, former prime ministers, heads of organizations under the Constitution, members of the Parliament and the Senate, ministry permanent secretaries and equivalent levels of high-ranking officials from the civil services, military, police, civil servants, political officers attached to Office of the Prime Minister, diplomatic corps, honorary consuls, representatives of international organizations, presidents of the Thai Chamber of Commerce, Federation of Thai Industries, and the Thai Bankers Association, and president of the Foreign Correspondents' Association of Thailand, along with their spouses, to attend the Grand Reception.
The event will be telecasted live via the Television Pool of Thailand from 1850hrs onward. The Government would like to invite all the Thai people to join in celebrating and offering blessings to His Majesty on occasion of Coronation Day, May 4, 2025.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/96080