รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM commits to promote women’s role and gender equality


วันจันทร์ที่ 10 มีนาคม 2568
10/03/2568
พิมพ์
PM commits to promote women’s role and gender equality
PM commits to promote women’s role and gender equality
March 8, 2025, on occasion of the 2025 International Women's Day, Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed that the incumbent cabinet comprises the highest number of female members throughout the course of Thai political history. This reflects Thailand’s advancement in promoting women’s role and gender equality. The 8 female members of the cabinet are: Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra; Minister attached to the Prime Minister's Office Jiraporn Sindhuphrai; Minister of Agriculture and Cooperatives Narumon Pinyosinwat; Minister of Culture Sudawan Wangsuphakijkosol; Minister of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation Supamas Isaraphakdi; Deputy Minister of Transport Manaporn Charoensri; Deputy Minister of Interior Sabida Thaiseth; and Deputy Minister of Interior Theerarat Samrejvanich.
The Government Spokesperson added that throughout her premiership, the Prime Minister strives to promote women empowerment. Various policies have been implemented to enhance women’s role in national development. She also commits to promoting human rights in all aspects, especially gender equality through the realization of Marriage Equality Act. It is important to judge an individual for their ideology, ability, and qualifications, rather than gender, age, and outer appearance.
On occasion of the International Women’s Day, the Prime Minister would like to thank all citizens for their trust and encouragement. She also asked all the women to believe in themselves and be confident that they could become organizational leaders at all levels and in all occupations. As a female national leader, the Prime Minister would not only promote women’s role, but also strives to fully push forward gender equality, both in terms of families, educations, and workplaces.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/94215