รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on June 6, 2023


วันจันทร์ที่ 12 มิถุนายน 2566
12/06/2566
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on June 6, 2023
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Royal Decree on Convocation of the National Assembly, B.E. 2566
The cabinet has made approval to the draft Royal Decree on Convocation of the National Assembly, B.E. 2566 (date is yet to be specified). The Cabinet Secretariat was assigned to liaise with Office of The Election Commission of Thailand, the Secretariat of the House of Representatives, and the Privy Council Chambers to present the draft Royal Decree to His Majesty the King for signature.
Gist
The cabinet’s approval of the draft Royal Decree on Convocation of the National Assembly, B.E. 2566 (date is yet to be specified) was made in accordance with the following Sections of the Constitution of the Kingdom of Thailand:
Section 83 (revised): The House of Representatives consists of five hundred members: four hundred members elected on a constituency basis; and one hundred members from party lists of political parties.
Section 84: In a general election where 95% of the total number of Members of the House of Representatives (475 members) have been elected, if it is necessary to convoke a sitting of the National Assembly, it may be convoked.
Section 85(4): The Election Commission shall announce the results of the election after a preliminary examination has been made and there are reasonable grounds to believe that the result of the election is honest and just, and amounts to not less than 95% of all constituencies. The Election Commission shall make a preliminary examination and shall announce the result of the election expeditiously; the announcement shall be not later than 60 days from the date of election (or by July 13, 2023).
Section 121(1): Within 15 days as from the announcement date of the result of the election of Members of the House of Representatives which is a general election, the National Assembly shall be convoked for the first sitting of its members (or by July 27, 2023).
Section 122(1, 2, and 4): The King convokes the National Assembly, opens and prorogues its session. The King may be present to perform the opening State ceremony of the first annual ordinary session or may command the Heir to the Throne who is sui jurisor any person to perform the ceremony as His Representative.
Title: Conferment of title of “Patron of the National Archives” upon HRH Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn
The cabinet acknowledged conferment of the distinguished title of “Patron of the National Archives” upon HRH Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn, as proposed by Ministry of Culture.
Gist
On occasion of the 70th anniversary of the National Archives, National Culture Commission, in its meeting on June 6, 2022, had decided to confer the title of the Patron of Thailand’s National Archives on Her Royal Highness to honor her work and support over Thai national archives, as well as her advice on new knowledge and technology concerning archival work. She also gives importance to archival education programs in universities in Thailand, so that graduates who are knowledgeable and capable of archival management and research will be produced for national development and the benefit of later generations. The princess had acknowledged the proposal from the National Archives.
Title: Exchange Letter for Innovative Climate Risk Financing for the Agricultural Sector in the ASEAN Region
The cabinet approved the draft Exchange Letter for Innovative Climate Risk Financing for the Agricultural Sector in the ASEAN Region, and authorized ASEAN Secretary-General as signatory of the exchange letter. This is as proposed by Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives.
Gist
Innovative Climate Risk Financing for the Agricultural Sector in the ASEAN Region is a collaborative project between ASEAN and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany. The exchange letter prescribes agreement and conditions of the latter to subsidize €4 million (approx. 150 million Baht) for project implementation in the forms of personnel, technical support, and financial support, as appropriate.
The Innovative Climate Risk Financing for the Agricultural Sector in the ASEAN Region project is aimed to improve the political framework conditions for the promotion of climate risk financing at the ASEAN level, and to strengthen capacity and collaboration with knowledge transfer in the ASEAN Region and in its ASEAN Member States (AMS).
Upon the cabinet’s approval, Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall notify ASEAN Secretariat of the approval for further action.
Title: Draft Joint Statement of ASEAN - Japan Special Meeting of Justice Ministers (AJSMJ)
The cabinet approved the draft Joint Statement of ASEAN - Japan Special Meeting of Justice Ministers (AJSMJ) and draft ASEAN - Japan Work Plan on Law and Justice. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Justice may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Justice or a representative is authorized to endorse the draft Joint Statement and adopt draft Work Plan. This is as proposed by Ministry of Justice.
Gist
ASEAN - Japan Special Meeting of Justice Ministers will be the first high-level gathering of ASEAN Justice Ministers with Japanese counterparts, which will coincide with the celebration of the 50th Year of Japan-ASEAN Friendship and Justice in 2023. The event will be hosted by Japanese Ministry of Justice during July 5-7, 2023 under the theme: Advancing ASEAN – Japan Cooperation to Promote the Rule of Law: Towards a New Phase beyond the 50th Year of Friendship and Cooperation.
The ASEAN - Japan Work Plan on Law and Justice sets the roadmap in identifying the possible areas of cooperation and coordination between ASEAN and Japan, with a view to promoting the rule of law and respect for human rights among ASEAN Member States and Japan.
Title: Draft Ministerial Declaration of the Second Session of the UN-Habitat Assembly
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Social Development and Human Security:
Approved the draft Ministerial Declaration of the Second Session of the UN-Habitat Assembly. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Social Development and Human Security may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
Minister of Social Development and Human Security or a representative, as head of the Thai delegation, is authorized to adopt the draft Ministerial Declaration of the Second Session of the UN-Habitat Assembly
Gist
The UN-Habitat Assembly is held during June 5-9, 2023 at the UN-Habitat Headquarters in Nairobi, Kenya. The draft Ministerial Declaration of the Second Session of the UN-Habitat Assembly recognizes urban development challenges, and a commitment to eliminate the challenges through collaboration among all levels and stakeholders, as well as develop mechanisms and various operational guidelines to achieve comprehensive and effective outcomes.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/69157