รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM’s address at Opening of the 80th Session of ESCAP


วันจันทร์ที่ 22 เมษายน 2567
22/04/2567
พิมพ์
PM’s address at Opening of the 80th Session of ESCAP
PM’s address at Opening of the 80th Session of ESCAP
April 22, 2024, at 0900hrs, at the United Nations Conference Center, Bangkok, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin delivered an address at the opening of the 80th Session of the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP). Deputy Government Spokesperson Radklao Inthawong Suwankiri disclosed gist of his address as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed honor to preside over the Opening of the 80thSession of the Commission under the theme “Leveraging Digital Innovation for Sustainable Development in Asia and the Pacific”. As host country of ESCAP, Thailand takes great pride in being a regional home to more than 5,000 UN personnel and representatives. This is a testament to Thailand’s long-standing commitment to international cooperation.
The theme of this year’s Commission is both timely and relevant. During his attendance at the SDG Summit and the UN General Assembly in New York last year, the Prime Minister was impressed by the collective efforts of the UN and its member countries. The dedication and proactive measures displayed on both occasions should steer UN and its member countries towards getting back on track to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals.With only six years remaining until 2030, global commitments and actions are required to achieve a prosperous future for all.
Asia and the Pacific is a vibrant and dynamicregion. Yet, at the current pace, the region will not achieve the SDGs until 2062. The future is calling for the Asia and the Pacific to find innovative ways to bring about sustainable development. And to do so in an urgent manner. The region needs transformative change. And digital innovation has become a vital tool for the region to achieve that change. It can help us do things faster, cheaper, and better. To fully realize the potential of digital innovation, Thailand proposed two approaches as follows:
First, it is important to empower people and communities through digital transformation. The region has to ensure that digital innovation is people-centric and inclusive. Along these lines, the Thai Government has recently launched the "Ignite Thailand" initiative, focusing on eight key areas. “Ignite Thailand" also places great importance on fostering digital literacy and inclusion among vulnerable groups. It aims to empower people and communities and drive sustainable growth.
For many agricultural-based countries in the Asia-Pacific region, including Thailand, digital transformation is critical to ensure food security for all. There is a need to leverage digital technologies to promote agricultural innovation. This will help to ensure a sustainable food system, climate-smart farming, and environmental sustainability.
Second, it is important to safeguard against risks. While embracing digital innovation, the region must identify and mitigate its related risks and negative impacts. This includes addressing cyber-security threats, bridging the digital divide, and working towards a strong framework for cooperation to ensure a safe, secure, and equitable digital future for all.
According to the Prime Minister, in the digital era, the role of ESCAP is more crucial than ever. As ESCAP is actively engaging stakeholders in the integration of digital technologies to foster sustainable development, there is still more room to amplify these efforts further. Thailand acknowledges this opportunity and stands ready to bolster support, ensuring that the collective actions make a significant impact on the ground. Member States and Associated Members must also exchange knowledge and best practices in order to narrow the digital divide, and bring about sustainable development at a faster pace.
This Commission Session, therefore, provided an excellent opportunity to promote regional cooperation through digital innovation to achieve the SDGs. However, the challenge is how to translate them into practical policies and reactions at the national and regional levels. The outcomes of this meeting will provide useful inputs to the High-Level Political Forum and the Summit of the Future, as well as the Global Digital Compact which will be held later this year.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/82019