รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-His Excellency Mr. Srettha Thavisin Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand for the ASEAN Future Forum 2024 under the theme 


วันอังคารที่ 23 เมษายน 2567
23/04/2567
พิมพ์
His Excellency Mr. Srettha Thavisin Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand for the ASEAN Future Forum 2024 under the theme
“Toward Fast and Sustainable Growth of a People-Centered ASEAN Community”
on 23 April 2024
His Excellency Mr. Srettha Thavisin
Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand
for the ASEAN Future Forum 2024 under the theme
“Toward Fast and Sustainable Growth of a People-Centered ASEAN Community”
on 23 April 2024
* * * * *
Your Excellency Pham Minh Chinh (ฝ่าม มิงห์ จิ๋งห์), Prime Minister of Viet Nam,
Your Excellency Sonexay Siphandone (สอนไซ สีพันดอน), Prime Minister of the Lao PDR,
Excellencies,
Distinguished participants,
We are living in an age of great uncertainty. How we manage these unfolding changes will be critical to our shared future. I therefore commend Viet Nam for initiating the ASEAN Future Forum as a platform for all stakeholders to discuss how we wish to see the future of ASEAN.
For over five decades, ASEAN has been an anchor of regional peace and stability, enabling us to advance socio-economic development for our peoples. ASEAN, as a grouping, is now the world’s fifth largest economy and widely recognized as a champion of regionalism and multilateralism.
Building on our strengths, we should aim towards “a more connected, sustainable, united, and resilient ASEAN” to achieve the future we all hope for.
A more connected ASEAN is key to unlocking the region’s full potential and enhancing our collective competitiveness. We must redouble our efforts in developing seamless connectivity for trade and investment, as well as digital, supply chain, and energy infrastructures. This will allow ASEAN to position itself as a key economic hub for the Indo-Pacific region.
A sustainable ASEAN is necessary for long-term economic growth and better quality of life. ASEAN should continue to strive towards a green economy, energy transition, as well as carbon neutrality. In our capacity as the ASEAN Coordinator on Sustainable Development Cooperation, Thailand will continue to foster cooperation towards that end.
A united and resilient ASEAN remains crucial for us in navigating geo-political and geo-economic uncertainties, as well as tackling regional and global challenges. Only through upholding unity and demonstrating ASEAN centrality can we maintain its relevance in the rapidly changing world.
Excellencies,
Distinguished Participants,
Thailand is committed to realizing an inclusive ASEAN Community Vision 2045 that embodies the goals and aspirations of our peoples. I firmly believe that ASEAN will continue to grow, prosper, and be a community that we can be proud of. Ultimately, we are all responsible in shaping the future of ASEAN, and we must do all we can.
I wish the Forum great success and very fruitful discussions.
Thank you.
* * * * *

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/82028