รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM emphasizes collaborative effort to drive country's economy forward in a sustainable manner


วันจันทร์ที่ 17 กุมภาพันธ์ 2568
​PM emphasizes collaborative effort to drive country's economy forward in a sustainable manner
​PM emphasizes collaborative effort to drive country's economy forward in a sustainable manner
February 14, 2025, at 11.15 hrs, at the Grand Hyatt Erawan Hotel, Bangkok, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra delivered a keynote address under the topic “Sustainable Thailand - Advancing with Reforms” at the JFCCT Prime Minister’s Address Luncheon 2025, organized by the Joint Foreign Chambers of Commerce in Thailand (JFCCT). Participating in the event were Minister of Commerce Pichai Naripthaphan, Minister of Industry Akanat Promphan, President of Thailand Trade Representatives Nalinee Thaveesin, Mrs. Vibeke Lyssand Leirvag, President of the JFCCT, and 36 JFCCT representatives, foreign diplomats, Thai and foreign private sector executives, and the media. Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed the gist of the Prime Minister’s keynote address as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed honor to have attended the event where many business leaders and key players gathered, which reflects an increasing confidence of foreign investors in the future of Thailand's economy. She thanked JFCCT for organizing this event to promote trade, investment and economic cooperation, which are key factors for Thailand’s economic advancement.
According to the Prime Minister, the event’s theme: “Sustainable Thailand - Advancing with Reforms,” demonstrates the Government’s commitment to promote long-term growth and resilience. Public-private partnerships will provide the country with the right direction, promote sustainable growth, enhance competitiveness, and create long-term success amidst the rapidly changing global economy. The Thai Government has prioritized international cooperation for sustainable development, and placed great importance and commitment on achieving the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030. Thailand’s SDGs score was higher than the average score of the region according to the Sustainable Development Report 2024. The country ranks 45th globally, 3rd in Asia, and 1st among the ASEAN countries for 6 consecutive years (2019-2024).
Last year, Thailand was invited to begin the accession process with the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), following the collaboration of the two parties in various projects, such as Deepening Collaboration to Promote Responsible Business Conduct, and Supporting Science, Technology and Innovation (STI) Strategy for Carbon Neutrality and Transitions. This reflects Thailand's commitment to international cooperation in driving sustainable development forward.
The Prime Minister also mentioned Thailand's vision for a sustainable and resilient economy, in which the government is committed to transforming traditional economic growth into sustainable growth through the adoption of the Bio-Circular-Green (BCG) economic model. This is to promote resource efficiency, innovation, and environmental sustainability. The BCG economic model leverages Thailand's strengths in biodiversity and technology to enhance global competitiveness. Key industries covered under the BCG model such as agriculture and food, healthcare and biotechnology, energy and materials, tourism, and creative economy.
Key elements of the BCG economic model include promoting responsible manufacturing and consumption of stakeholders, reducing waste, and promoting clean energy to support Thailand’s goal of achieving carbon neutrality by 2050 and net-zero emissions by 2065. Thailand also implemented its Power Development Plan, adopted in 2018, and the progress under the Climate Change Act. The plan aims to increase the share of renewable energy in power generation to at least 50% by 2040. These efforts reflect the Government’s commitment to advancing economic growth while protecting the environment to create a better and sustainable future for all.
In closing, the Prime Minister reaffirmed the Government’s commitment towards inclusive and sustainable socio-economic development that is people-centric. She believed that today’s discussion and exchange of views will inspire and guide us towards fostering a more sustainable society. The Prime Minister emphasized the importance of working collaboratively to drive the country's economy forward in a sustainable, prosperous and inclusive manner for all.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/93457