รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM congratulates Thai athlete for historic medal at 2025 Asian Winter Games


วันจันทร์ที่ 17 กุมภาพันธ์ 2568
17/02/2568
พิมพ์
​PM congratulates Thai athlete for historic medal at 2025 Asian Winter Games
​PM congratulates Thai athlete for historic medal at 2025 Asian Winter Games
Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed that on February 14, 2025, at 1600hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Thai athletes and coaches who participated in the 9th Asian Winter Games “Harbin 2025” paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra. Participating in the meeting were Minister of Tourism and Sports Sorawong Thienthong, Vice President and Treasurer of the National Olympic Committee of Thailand under Royal Patronage Thana Chaiprasit, Member of the International Olympic Committee Khunying Patama Leeswadtrakul, Governor of Sports Authority of Thailand Kongsak Yodmanee, President of the Ski and Snowboard Association of Thailand Piyasvasti Amranand, coaches and athletes.
The Prime Minister welcomed 2025 Asian Winter Games coaches and athletes, and congratulated Mr.Paul Henri Vieuxtemps who secured a historic bronze medal in the men's Freeski slopestyle event. She called on Mr. Vieuxtemps to share his experiences, both personal and professional, to inspire the Thai youths. Mr. Vieuxtemps expressed happiness to have won a medal for Thailand in the Harbin 2025, and hoped to be qualified for the Winter Olympic Games. The Prime Minister asked him about the athletes’ rest time and training sites, on which Mr. Vieuxtemps replied that they would continue training and have a short break in summer. As for him, he would return home in France tomorrow to continue training. The Prime Minister, then, presented souvenirs and took photos with the athletes and coaches who participated in the 2025 Asian Winter Games.
The 2025 Asian Winter Games was held during February 7-14, in Harbin, Heilongjiang, China. Thailand sent 85 athletes, the most in history and the first time for the country to have athletes representing in all 11 sports. On February 11, Mr. Vieuxtemps won a bronze medal in the Men's Freeski slopestyle event, Thailand's first-ever medal at the Asian Winter Games.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/93462