รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM’s broadcasting program on Sunday Feb 16 to feature official visit to China


วันจันทร์ที่ 17 กุมภาพันธ์ 2568
17/02/2568
พิมพ์
PM’s broadcasting program on Sunday Feb 16 to feature official visit to China
PM’s broadcasting program on Sunday Feb 16 to feature official visit to China
February 14, 2025, Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed that on Sunday, February 16, 2025, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra will host a special program called "Thai Opportunity with Prime Minister Paethongtarn: Special Episode" to summarize the outcomes of her official visit to People’s Republic of China. The program will be broadcast simultaneously on the Public Relations Department’s National Broadcasting Services of Thailand (NBT2 HD and TV5) from 8:00-8:30 a.m.; and on Channel 9 MCOT HD from 9:30-10:00 a.m. It will also be broadcast via the Public Relations Department radio network nationwide.
For the program, the Prime Minister will talk about success of the official visit in all dimensions, and provide the insights of what has happened in the 4 days of her official visit to the People's Republic of China, especially the events that did not allow the media to attend. In particular, the Prime Minister will elaborate on her meetings with 3 Chinese important figures: President Xi Jinping, chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, Mr. Zhao Leji, and Premier Li Qiang. This was a historic official visit, in which the Prime Minister and delegation were highly honored by the leaders of the Chinese Government. The Prime Minister also met with executives of leading Chinese private sectors and attended the opening of the 9th Asian Winter Games in Harbin to support Thai athletes in the competition.
In the special program, the Prime Minister will reveal issues of discussion during the visit, especially suppression of transnational and online crimes. The issue of trade and investment in megaprojects is also prioritized in the discussions, such as the Eastern Economic Corridor; high-speed rail project connecting Bangkok to China through Laos, which will upgrade regional trade activities, enabling faster delivery of goods and reducing travel costs; and the Land Bridge project, an important gateway linking the Gulf of Thailand and the Andaman Sea.
The Prime Minister will also talk about the signing of 14 agreements and MoUs in various areas of cooperation, e.g., simplification of customs procedure, development of future industries (such as, EVs, semiconductor, and Data Center), etc.
She will also share her impression on and special atmosphere of the opening ceremony of Asian Winter Games in Harbin, where the Prime Minister has met with international leaders and the Thai athletes attending the competition.
The program will also feature a new segment called “Tales from the Pictures”. The Prime Minister will show selected pictures, taken during the official visit to China by both herself and the photographers, which have never been released to the public, and will share behind-the-scenes stories and her impression of the pictures.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/93461