รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM delighted with TasteAtlas ranked “Som tam - Phla kung” as top 10 Best Rated SALADS in the World.


วันอังคารที่ 25 เมษายน 2566
25/04/2566
พิมพ์
PM delighted with TasteAtlas ranked “Som tam - Phla kung” as top 10 Best Rated SALADS in the World.
PM delighted with TasteAtlas ranked “Som tam - Phla kung” as top 10 Best Rated SALADS in the World.
April 22, 2023, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that the Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha were pleased on the results of Thai dishes ranking from TasteAtlas, a website that compiles recipes and reviews from food critics around the world revealed 10 Best Rated SALADS in the World (2023) which the voting results have 2 Thai dishes ranked, namely “Som tam” (papaya salad) on 6th place and “Phla kung” (shrimp salad) on 9th place.
Government Spokesperson said the 10 Best Rated SALADS in the World were ranked by results from reviewers around the world. Announced on March 27, 2023 for Som tam (papaya salad) which received 6th place in this ranking. The website described that the ingredients of Som tam menu consist of thinly sliced green papaya, peanuts, long beans, tomatoes, dried shrimps and other ingredients as desired, mixed with a sauce that contains garlic, chili, fish sauce, palm sugar, lime juice or tamarind juice. This menu has a spicy, sweet and sour taste that can be found in the Northeast of Thailand. There are many types of papaya salad menu depending on the ingredients. It is a popular simple salad menu. and basic menu item in Thai restaurants around the world by eating as a main dish, with rice or with other types of protein foods.
For Phla kung (shrimp salad), received 9th place in this ranking. The website described that it as a fresh shrimp salad with a spicy and sour taste. The ingredients are shrimp, lemongrass, red onion, lettuce, kaffir lime leaves, coriander and mint leaves, all covered with a chili-lime dressing. This menu can be modified in many variations of this dish, some of which can add raw materials and other ingredients as needed this menu to has a strong taste and scented with Thai herbs.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Prime Minister is delighted that Thai dishes has been consistently ranked. It represents the outstanding food culture that is diverse and popular. Thai dishes through a combination of raw materials, including herbs and spices are unique. There are ingredients that nutritious as well as having a mellow taste. The Prime Minister also thanked for those involved in the food business, who still maintains the value of the identity of Thai dishes in order to create a reputation for the country.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/67614