รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM granted audience with Crown Prince and Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia


วันอาทิตย์ที่ 22 ตุลาคม 2566
​PM granted audience with Crown Prince and Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
​PM granted audience with Crown Prince and Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
October 20, 2023, at 12.45 hrs (Riyadh local time), at the Ritz-Carlton Hotel, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin was granted an audience with His Royal Highness Prince Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, the Crown Prince and Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, for bilateral dialogue during his attendance at the ASEAN- Gulf Cooperation Council Riyadh Summit. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister and His Royal Highness affirmed joint commitment to promote relations and cooperation between Thailand and Saudi Arabia, especially in trade and investment, infrastructure development, tourism, and people-to-people relations. The Prime Minister expressed profound appreciation on His Royal Highness’s vision to revitalize diplomatic relations between the two countries. Thailand commits to promoting relations and cooperation with Saudi Arabia in wide-ranging areas for tangible interest of people of the two countries.
The Prime Minister and His Royal Highness Prince Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud also discussed other issues of mutual interests:
On mutual relations, both parties discussed relations promotion during the past 2 years, including trade and investment promotion, on which the Prime Minister proposed Thai-GCC FTA negotiation. He also expressed support for Saudi Arabia’s bid to host the Expo 2030 and 2034 FIFA World Cup. Both the Prime Minister and His Royal Highness discussed cooperation approach and pending implementations in the fields of 1) political and consular affairs; 2) investment; 3) security and military; 4) culture and tourism; and 5) trade and economy. Thailand stands ready to host the 1st Saudi – Thai Coordination Council (STCC) to review direction for mutual relations and cooperation in the aforementioned 5 areas.
With regard to security cooperation, both sides agreed to promote cooperation in national defense industry. The two countries have recently had exchange of high-level visits through attendance of the Defense and Security Expo in Thailand and the World Defense Show in Saudi Arabia. Thailand’s Defense Industry and Energy Center and Defense Technology Institute will work to further reinforce security cooperation with Saudi Arabia in a tangible manner.
The Prime Minister took the opportunity to thank the Saudi Government for taking good care of over 6,000 Thais in the country, and exchanged view on the unrest situation in Israel in which a number of Thai citizens were either killed, injured, or taken hostages. Saudi Arabia agreed to put its utmost effort in having the Thai hostages released.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/73646