รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM pleased with success of her first attendance at international forum (3rd ACD Summit)


วันจันทร์ที่ 7 ตุลาคม 2567
07/10/2567
พิมพ์
PM pleased with success of her first attendance at international forum (3rd ACD Summit)
PM pleased with success of her first attendance at international forum (3rd ACD Summit)
October 3, 2024, at the Ritz-Carlton Doha, State of Qatar, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra disclosed about the success of her attendance at the 3rd Asia Cooperation Dialogue (ACD) Summit, during which several nations commended Thailand for its initiative on ACD establishment, as a forum for cooperation and collaboration. Several member states expressed interest in investment cooperation with Thailand, especially in technology and education, as well as in food, medicine, and medical tourism which the country is widely recognized.
They also congratulated Thailand for Google’s investment in the country of over 35 billion Baht in Cloud and technology. The Prime Minister underscored Thailand’s stance as an active promoter of peace and common prosperity in accordance with the UN Charters, especially in protecting innocent lives.
During the 3rd ACD Summit, the Prime Minister had bilateral discussion with leaders of member states. The meeting with Prime Minister Masoud Pezeshkian of the Islamic Republic of Iran focused on economic and technology cooperation, whereas in her audience with His Highness Sheikh Tamim Bin Hamad Al-Thani, Amir of the State of Qatar, who was especially interested in food security, the Prime Minister proposed Thai food purchasing model under which food will be supplied and exported when needed. Ministry of Commerce will pursue the matter with interested countries.
President Emomali Rahmon of Tajikistan told the Prime Minister that he had been to Phuket before, and with his love of seafood, offered to help promote Thai seafood among his people. Sheikh Sabah Al-Khaled Al-Hamad Al-Mubarak Al-Sabah, Crown Prince of the State of Kuwait, congratulated Thailand for its hosting of the ACD Summit next year. The Prime Minister took the opportunity to extend invitation for Kuwait to invest in the Landbridge project.
At the ACD Summit, the Prime Minister experienced the spirit of cooperation and collaboration. It is the Thailand’s fervent determination to continue to forge stronger partnerships, while adhering to promoting peace and impartiality. She was content with her first attendance at an international forum where other nations expressed interest in discussing economic, technology, and food cooperation with Thailand.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/88832