รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on January 21, 2025


วันอังคารที่ 28 มกราคม 2568
28/01/2568
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on January 21, 2025
Some of the resolutions are as follows
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Chonburi province (Bang Lamung district’s Nong Plalai, Nong Prue, and Huay Yai subdistricts), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Chonburi province (Bang Lamung district’s Nong Plalai, Nong Prue, and Huay Yai subdistricts), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Transport. The ministry shall take comments of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, and Official of Council of State into consideration.
Gist
The Royal Decree prescribes areas in Chonburi province (Bang Lamung district’s Nong Plalai, Nong Prue, and Huay Yai subdistricts), approx. 421 rai, to be expropriated for construction of a local road (Ngor 1) under Pattaya City Planning Project to accommodate expansion of Pattaya City. Land survey and appropriation shall commence within 180 days after the Royal Decree is in effect.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for room air conditioners: energy efficiency, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for room air conditioners: energy efficiency, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for room air conditioners: energy efficiency, B.E. …, prescribes Thai Industrial Standard for room air conditioners: energy efficiency under TIS 2134 - 2553, to be in accordance with the new TIS 2134-2565. This is to comply with current international standard requirements. The draft Ministerial Regulation shall take effect 365 days after being announced in the Royal Gazette.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for hot and cool water dispenser and cool water dispenser safety requirements, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for hot and cool water dispenser and cool water dispenser safety requirements, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for hot and cool water dispenser and cool water dispenser safety requirements, B.E. …, prescribes Thai Industrial Standard for hot and cool water dispenser and cool water dispenser safety requirements under TIS 2461 - 2552, to be in accordance with the new TIS 2461 - 2565. This is to comply with current international standard requirements. The former TSI (2461 – 2552) shall be revoked. The draft Ministerial Regulation shall take effect 180 days after being announced in the Royal Gazette.
Title: Letter of Consents to the Accession to Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in Southeast Asia (TAC) by the Republic of Finland and Hungary
The cabinet approved the draft Letter of Consent to the Accession to Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in Southeast Asia (TAC) by the Republic of Finland and Hungary, and authorized Minister of Foreign Affairs to sign the two letters of consent.
Gist
The TAC was established by the five founding countries of ASEAN (Indonesia, the Republic of the Philippines, Malaysia, the Republic of Singapore and Thailand) to set out principles for conducting relations in the region, that is, (1) respect for sovereignty, equality and territorial integrity; (2) non-interference in internal affairs; (3) peaceful resolution of problems; (4) non-use or threat of use of force; and (5) promotion of mutual cooperation. It came into force on 24 February 1976.
The ASEAN Foreign Ministers Meeting, in the earlier meeting, has accepted the request to accession of the Republic of Finland and Hungary. Lao People's Democratic Republic, as Chair of ASEAN in 2024, has made a request for all ASEAN Member States to approve the Letters of Consent for accession to the TAC by the Republic of Finland and Hungary.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/92797