รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Intervention  by His Excellency Mr. Srettha Thavisin, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand at the Leaders’ Plenary of the Special Summit to Commemorate the 50th Anniversary of


วันพุธที่ 6 มีนาคม 2567
06/03/2567
พิมพ์
Intervention  by His Excellency Mr. Srettha Thavisin, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand at the Leaders’ Plenary of the Special Summit to Commemorate the 50th Anniversary of
ASEAN - Australia Dialogue Relations
Topic: ASEAN-Australia Cooperation under ASEAN’s Three Community Pillars
on 6 March 2024, Melbourne Convention and Exhibition Centre, Melbourne
Intervention
by His Excellency Mr. Srettha Thavisin,
Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand
at the Leaders’ Plenary of the Special Summit to Commemorate
the 50th Anniversary of ASEAN - Australia Dialogue Relations
Topic: ASEAN-Australia Cooperation under ASEAN’s Three Community Pillars
on 6 March 2024, Melbourne Convention and Exhibition Centre, Melbourne
Co-Chairs,
Your Majesty,
Excellencies,
I would like to thank Prime Minister Albanese for the warm welcome and hospitality since our arrival in Melbourne.
We are celebrating the Golden Jubilee of ASEAN-Australia relations during a time of uncertainties. However, one thing has remained constant ever since Australia became ASEAN’s first Dialogue Partner, namely, our shared commitment to foster economic cooperation and development.
We have worked hard to foster these links and formalize a Comprehensive Strategic Partnership. In today’s multipolar world, it is necessary to seize opportunities to forge partnerships, to ensure peace and stability.
Looking ahead, I wish to highlight two priority areas which are seamless connectivity and the green agenda.
First, enhancing connectivity in all dimensions is key to unlocking our full potential.
One dimension is connectivity in trade and investment.
We can do more to increase our two-way trade from the current average of 5.5% a year. We must work harder to connect our markets and capitalize on our existing webs of FTAs, fully utilizing RCEP and AANZFTA.
A second dimension is infrastructure connectivity.
We need to invest more to promote seamless logistics in the region. Of particular interest to us is Australia’s expertise in port automation, notably at the Port of Melbourne, as we are developing the ASEAN Guidelines on Smart Ports.
On your part, Australia might be interested in Thailand’s plan to connect the Indian and Pacific Oceans through our Landbridge Project. This will be a game changer for the whole region and the world. We also have plans to upgrade our Eastern Economic Corridor, as well as our rail and air infrastructures. These projects will help enhance the overall regional connectivity.
A third dimension is digital connectivity.
We must seriously invest in digital transformation in order to support innovation and future technologies. ASEAN has started to develop an ASEAN Digital Economy Framework Agreement, or DEFA, the world’s first such agreement, with Thailand chairing the negotiations. DEFA will help double the value of the region’s digital economy to 2 trillion dollars.
We hope that Australia will support our efforts, especially through the Aus4ASEAN Digital Transformation and Future Skills Initiative. We also hope that Australia will consider establishing Austrade Landing Pads in all ASEAN Member States.
A fourth and final dimension is people-to-people connectivity.
Soft power and creative industries require investment in human capital as well as an unhindered flow of ideas and people. We hope that the new Australia for ASEAN Scholarships and the establishment of the ASEAN - Australia Center will help to promote exchanges in education, skill training, culture, and arts.
Such exchanges would require making travel more convenient through facilitation of visas for frequent travelers and businesses. We hope that Australia’s initiative will eventually lead to visa-free travel between ASEAN and Australia. Your Majesty,
Excellencies,
My second priority area is promoting a greener region. Here, I would like to emphasize that advancing the green economy and clean energy transition is as much an opportunity as a challenge.
Australia can play a vital role in helping to build an EV ecosystem in ASEAN. We will also mutually benefit from investments in renewable energy and sustainable fuels, including hydrogen and ammonia.
Thailand is also doing our part to promote green and sustainable finance through taxonomy and the issuing of sustainability bonds.
As we implement the ASEAN Strategy for Carbon Neutrality, we wish to work with Australia through investments, as well as sharing of technology, and expertise on carbon credit markets.
Your Majesty,
Excellencies,
In closing, let me reaffirm Thailand’s commitment to working closely with all of you in strengthening our Comprehensive Strategic Partnership towards
a more connected and greener region.
Thank you.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/79904