รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM delivers statement at ASEAN- Gulf Cooperation Council Riyadh Summit


วันศุกร์ที่ 20 ตุลาคม 2566
PM delivers statement at ASEAN- Gulf Cooperation Council Riyadh Summit
PM delivers statement at ASEAN- Gulf Cooperation Council Riyadh Summit
October 20, 2023, at 09.00 hrs (Riyadh local time), at three Ritz Carlton, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin attended the ASEAN- Gulf Cooperation Council Riyadh Summit (GCC), together with leaders of ASEAN and the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC- Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Qatar, Kuwait, and Oman), and delivered a statement on “Innovative Partnership for Sustainable Future”. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of the statement as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure to attend the meeting, and thanked His Royal Highness Prince Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, the Crown Prince and Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, for the warm welcome and hospitality. At the historic Summit, the Prime Minister reaffirmed Thailand’s commitment to further strengthen partnership between the two regions.
ASEAN and GCC make up almost 6% of the global GDP. Thailand is optimistic that the ASEAN - GCC Framework of Cooperation that will be adopted today will further enhance collaboration between the two regions.
Nonetheless, both ASEAN and GCC meet against the backdrop of common challenges and insecurities — be they human, food, energy, health or climate, and the issue that would right now be on top of everyone’s mind, which is the event unfolding in the Gaza Strip and the surrounding areas.
ASEAN and GCC have developed ambitious visions that are sustainable and future-ready, with people at the centre, to tackle these challenges. Only through these shared visions can we achieve our common goals. Cooperation between ASEAN and GCC should be guided by “innovative partnership for sustainable future”. The Prime Minister highlighted three areas of cooperation:
First, Thailand supports seamless trade and investment by reducing barriers. The establishment of ASEAN - GCC Business Forum to promote closer private sector ties should be seriously explored. The Prime Minister emphasized that the negotiation of Thai - GCC FTA to further current trade value of 40 billion dollars is crucial. Concerned officials should be tasked to resume the feasibility study on ASEAN - GCC FTA.
As “Kitchen of the World”, Thailand is ready to share best practices in agriculture and food innovation to ensure food security, and would like to seek cooperation with GCC on halal science and standardization.
Second, Thailand has adopted green growth and energy transition towards net-zero emission. To promote green and sustainable financing, the country will issue additional sustainability linked bond next year, and interested GCC colleagues would be welcomed to participate so as to achieve the SDGs together. The ASEAN Centre for Sustainable Development Studies and Dialogue in Bangkok and GCC counterparts can work closely by exchanging best practices, especially on energy efficiency, clean energy, and electric vehicle ecosystem.
Lastly, on stronger people ties. ASEAN welcomes more GCC visitors. Thailand wishes to see the annual figure of 300,000 GCC tourists doubled in the next five years, and will continue to enhance hospitality services, including health and wellness tourism. Many Thai Muslims can speak Arabic, which will be useful in providing healthcare services for GCC nationals. Thailand also stands ready to share expertise in medical and wellness tourism and tourism management.
The Prime Minister stressed that ASEAN - GCC partnership should be built on common desire for peace, stability and prosperity, and would appreciate the GCC’s proactive role in resolving flashpoints through dialogue. Thailand deplores the outbreak of violence resulting in casualties and fatalities including the death of 30 Thai nationals, disrupting regional and international peace and security. The Prime Minister called on all parties to take immediate steps to bring about the cessation of violence and to seek peaceful resolution through negotiations and diplomatic means, on the basis of the two-State solution. Thailand calls for the safe, immediate and unconditional return of all hostages and no more loss of life. Ultimately, the country wishes to see peace prevail, and will contribute 80,000 dollars to UNRWA in response to the dire humanitarian crisis.
In closing, the Prime Minister hoped that the fruits of this Summit be sustained and future-oriented through regular dialogues and engagement. Thailand will be ready to pursue future Leaders’ dialogue in advancing this partnership. The two Secretariats should be tasked to concretely follow up what have been discussed today.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/73611