รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with President of the European Council


วันพุธที่ 14 ธันวาคม 2565
พิมพ์
PM meets with President of the European Council
PM meets with President of the European Council
December 13, 2022, at 16.20 hrs (Brussels local time), at the Europa Building, Brussels, Kingdom of Belgium, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha met with H.E. Mr. Charles Michel, President of the European Council, during the ASEAN-EU Commemorative Summit. Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister congratulated the ASEAN-EU Commemorative Summit, which is the inaugural meeting between 9 ASEAN leaders/representatives and leaders/representatives of 27 EU member countries under the ASEAN framework. The meeting is relevant with EU Strategy for Cooperation in the Indo-Pacific, which aims to increase EU’s engagement in and maintain strong partnership with the Indo-Pacific and ASEAN. The meeting is also timely for the strengthening of Thailand-EU relations, as both parties are set to sign EU-Thailand Partnership and Cooperation Agreement (PCA). Thailand stands ready to become EU’s partner on the basis of shared values, inclusive multilateralism, and international rules and regulations that promote democracy, human rights, and the good governance. The Prime Minister expressed hope for EU’s support in translating the Plan of Action to Implement the ASEAN-EU Strategic Partnership (2023-2027) and PCA into concrete action for mutual interest. Thailand is ready to work closely and opens to constructive discussion and negotiation with all EU agencies and units.
President of the European Council expressed pleasure to meet with the Prime Minister to discuss reinforcement of Thailand-EU relations and cooperation, and congratulated the signing of Thai-EU PCA as guideline for tangible cooperation. He also commended Thailand’s leading role in the region. As EU’s friend, he hoped that Thailand continues to tighten cooperation with EU in the fields of mutual interest, i.e., sustainable development, environment, technology and innovation, climate change, public health cooperation, security, and cooperation in the Indo-Pacific.
Both parties also discussed other key areas of cooperation:
On the issue of sustainability and green agenda, Thailand has placed great importance on promoting sustainable economic growth through utilizing the BCG Economic Model to create proper business ecosystem, while upholding its commitment to reach carbon neutrality and net zero greenhouse gas emissions. The Prime Minister encouraged EU and EU member countries to support the Thai private sector in elevating their environmental standard.
President of the European Council commended Thailand for its priority placed on sustainable development. As Thailand’s BCG Economic Model is relevant with the European Green Deal, EU stands ready to cooperate with the country, and to encourage private sector of both sides to exchange excellent practice and expand their investment in order to promote innovation and research in sustainability and environment.
Both parties came to terms on strengthening cooperation amidst the uncertainty of global security situation. Thailand is aware of the need to maintain inclusive dialogue space, led by humanitarian assistance. President of the European Council affirmed EU’s commitment to promote security cooperation, which includes capacity enhancement, and exchange of intelligence, personnel, and good practices, and to discuss with Thailand on security negotiation framework to further promote cooperation in cyber security, marine security, and anti-terrorism.
With regard to EU’s cooperation with ASEAN, the President of the European Council acknowledged the importance of ASEAN’s centrality, and affirmed EU’s readiness to open for broad and constructive negotiation with Thailand on the principle of mutual respect and trust and shared benefit. The Prime Minister also pledged Thailand’s commitment to work together with EU in promoting peace and stability in the Indo-Pacific and ASEAN regions, and to push forward key agendas under the EU Strategy for Cooperation in the Indo-Pacific, e.g., marine conservation and sustainable fishery, protection of personal information, response to cyber threats, and space cooperation.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/62661