รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Govt Spokesperson: BOT reports improvement of Thai economy in Jan 2023


วันอังคารที่ 14 มีนาคม 2566
14/03/2566
พิมพ์
Govt Spokesperson: BOT reports improvement of Thai economy in Jan 2023
Govt Spokesperson: BOT reports improvement of Thai economy in
Jan 2023
March 14, 2023, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government
Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen.
Prayut Chan-o-cha was pleased with the positive trend of Thailand’s economic and monetary
conditions in January 2023, as reported by the Bank of Thailand.
According to the report, Thai economy improved from the previous month. Private consumption
indicators increased in almost all categories. Consumption of services increased thanks to both
foreign and domestic tourist expenditures, while consumption of durable goods improved,
following a pick-up in delivery of vehicles’ backlog orders, especially electric vehicles (EV).
Spending on non-durable goods also edged up thanks partly to the government’s stimulus
measures. Overall, household consumption continued to be supported by improving
employment figures and consumer confidence.
The Bank of Thailand also reported on the country’s economic stability. Headline inflation
declined, following lower inflation rates in energy and fresh food categories. Labor market
gradually improved in line with the economic recovery as reflected by increases in the number
of total contributors to the social security system, which almost reached the pre-COVID level.
On exchange rates, the baht against the US dollar, on average, appreciated, following a better
investors’ sentiment regarding the recovery of Thailand’s tourism sector due to the faster-than-
anticipated reopening of China.
The Federation of Thai Industries (FTI) also forecasted the country’s export outlook for this
year, which is expected to grow by 1%, following an increase of Industry Sentiment Index to
the highest level in 43 months in January 2023. Coupling with a positive sign from the import of
capital goods, raw materials and semi-finished products, vehicles and transport equipment, and
consumer products, which increased from the previous month, the country’s export and
domestic consumption are expected to continually improved.
The Government Spokesperson added that the Prime Minister was pleased with these positive
economic signs. Despite the global economic recession, the Government’s economic measures
and recovery of tourism sector are expected to contribute to an increase of revolving fund and
Thai economic advancement.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/66108