รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM conveys profound condolences to Turkish Government and people on Turkey’s disastrous quake


วันศุกร์ที่ 10 กุมภาพันธ์ 2566
10/02/2566
พิมพ์
​PM conveys profound condolences to Turkish Government and people on Turkey’s disastrous quake
​PM conveys profound condolences to Turkish Government and people on Turkey’s disastrous quake
February 9, 2023, at 0900hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha, on behalf of the Thai Government, offered the humanitarian assistance to the Government of Republic of Turkey through H.E. Mrs. Serap Ersoy, Ambassador of the Republic of Türkiye (Turkey) to Thailand. Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist as follows:
The Prime Minister, on behalf of the Thai Government and people, delivered profound condolences over the devastating earthquake which took place in the city of Kahramanmaraş (580 km from Ankara) and vicinity in the morning of February 6, 2023. Aside from 5-million Baht in donation, the Thai Government will dispatch a team of 42 emergency search and rescue workers from the Department of Disaster Prevention and Mitigation, and other assistance as needed to Turkey. He expressed sincere hope for the Government and people of Turkey to get over such a hard time soon. The Turkish Government may contact the Thai Ministry of Foreign Affairs anytime if any further assistance is needed.
The Turkish Ambassador expressed appreciation toward the Thai Government and people, as well as the private sector, who have constantly gotten in touch with the Embassy to offer help. Thailand is one of Turkey’s true friends, and the country truly appreciates Thailand’s assistance and moral support.
The Prime Minister also expressed condolences over the death of a Thai woman from this disastrous quake, and ordered Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Royal Thai Embassy in Ankara to liaise with concerned Turkish agencies on the arrangements for the repatriation of the victim’s body. He also called on the Turkish Government to take care of the Thai victims who are taking refuge in the Government shelters.
Thai citizens in Turkey who need immediate assistance may contact Royal Thai Embassy in Ankara at Hotline: +90 533 641 5698 or Facebook Page: สถานเอกอัครราชทูต ณ กรุงอังการา, 24/7. Relatives of Thai citizens who may be impacted by the disaster may also contact the Consular Department’s กองคุ้มครองและดูแลผลประโยชน์คนไทยในต่างประเทศ (Overseas Thai Protection Division) at the call center: 02 572 8442. Royal Thai Embassy in Ankara would also like to seek cooperation from the Thai citizens, both short-term visitors or long-term residents, to register themselves at the database link: https://forms.gle/BKZJXYj7MFdDHZ3t6 in case of emergency. They are also urged to closely follow up on the situation update from the Embassy’s website, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or reliable local media.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/64780