รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Joint Press Statement on official visit to Thailand by Prime Minister of Malaysia


วันศุกร์ที่ 10 กุมภาพันธ์ 2566
09/02/2566
พิมพ์
Joint Press Statement on official visit to Thailand by Prime Minister of Malaysia
Joint Press Statement on official visit to Thailand by Prime Minister of Malaysia
February 9, 2023, at 1820 hrs, at the Inner Santi Maitri Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha delivered a Joint Press Statement together with Dato’ Seri Anwar Ibrahim, Prime Minister of Malaysia, on occasion of the latter’s official visit to Thailand as guest of the Thai Government. Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the Joint Press Statement as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed Malaysian Prime Minister on his introductory visit to Thailand upon assumption of duty in November 2022. As a friend of Thailand, the Malaysian Prime Minister has contributed to the deepening of relations and cooperation between the two countries. Amidst various challenges the region is facing, Thailand and Malaysia need to work closely together for the best interest of the people of both countries. Both leaders also had the opportunity to exchange views on the current international and regional challenges and expressed satisfaction with the longstanding cordial relations between Thailand and Malaysia. They reaffirmed their commitment to further deepen the bilateral cooperation and collaboration at all levels, and to seek new cooperation for Thailand-Malaysia border area to become peaceful and prosperous “Golden Land”.
Connectivity: The two leaders underscored the importance of seamless and comprehensive connectivity on cross-border socio-economic activities between Thailand and Malaysia. They also expressed willingness to accelerate the progress of pending border connectivity projects, especially the construction of the Road Alignment Linking CIQ Sadao - ICQS Bukit Kayu Hitam and the new bridges across Golok River. Both Thailand and Malaysia reaffirmed commitment to enhance cooperation in IMT-GT.
Economic cooperation: The two leaders agreed to continue working closely in promoting an increase in trade and investment. This is to achieve the bilateral trade target of USD 30 billion by 2025.
Border area development: The two leaders exchanged views to intensify efforts in establishing linkages between the Special Economic Zones (SEZs) in the Southern Border Provinces of Thailand and the northern states of Malaysia to further promote long-term investment, economic and social development for the people in the border areas, so as to uplift their livelihoods and well-being. They underlined the importance of strengthening supply chains to further promote the rubber industry, SMEs and industrial development, as well as human capacity building, in the border areas of the two countries.
People-to-people relations: especially social and cultural cooperation and also in the fields of education, science, technology and innovation. The Thai Prime Minister also expressed his appreciation that visitors from Malaysia formed the largest number of international tourists arriving in Thailand in 2022.
Regional and international cooperation: With regards to regional and international cooperation for peace, security, stability, and regional prosperity, the two leaders exchanged view on regional and global development, and affirmed commitment to promote ASEAN's centrality and solidarity in overcoming global challenges of geo-political, and socio-economic changes.
The Prime Minister reaffirmed Thailand’s intent to work closely together with Malaysian Prime Minister and Government at all levels in advancing cooperation toward tangible results without leaving anyone behind, which is in line with “Malaysia Madani”, the concept initiated by the Malaysian Prime Minister to drive and restore Malaysia’s dignity and glory in the global arena without leaving anyone behind. The Prime Minister also encouraged private sectors to interact more, and expressed hope that the Malaysian Government would take good care of the Thai private sector in Malaysia.
Afterwards, the Prime Minister led Malaysian Prime Minister to the handicraft exhibition at the Central Hall, Santi Maitri Building, before hosting dinner in honor of the Malaysian Prime Minister and spouse.
Both leaders also welcomed the exchange of
(1) Memorandum of Understanding between Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT) and Tenaga Nasional Berhad (TNB) in relation to the setting up of a Joint Working Committee for feasibility studies on proposed enhancement of the interconnection capacity between Peninsular Malaysia and Thailand;
(2) Memorandum of Understanding between TNB Renewables Sdn. Bhd. ("TRe") and Planet Utility Co., Ltd ("Planet Utility") in relation to the proposed collaboration to explore potential renewable energy and power generation technologies opportunities in Thailand;
(3) Memorandum of Understanding between TNB Power Generation Sdn. Bhd.("GenCo") and B.Grimm Power Public Co., Ltd ("B.Grimm") in relation to the proposed exploration of any opportunities for collaboration, participation and development of renewable power projects in South East Asia Region; and
(4) Memorandum of Understanding between Malaysia Digital Economy Corporation SDN. BHD (MDEC) of Malaysia and Digital Economy Promotion Agency (depa) of Thailand.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/64758