รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on February 14, 2023.


วันจันทร์ที่ 20 กุมภาพันธ์ 2566
20/02/2566
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on February 14, 2023.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Announcement of National Tourism Policy Committee on Imposition of Tourist Entry Fee on Foreign Travelers, B.E. …
The cabinet approved the followings:
Approved in principle the draft Announcement of National Tourism Policy Committee on Imposition of Tourism Entry Fee on Foreign Travelers, B.E. …, as proposed by National Tourism Policy Committee.
Assigned the Royal Thai Police (the Immigration Office) to amend Ministerial Regulations prescribing criteria, procedures and conditions for obtaining visa, and other related laws issued under the Immigration Act, B.E. 2522
Gist
This announcement prescribes imposition of entry fee on foreign tourists at the following rates:
Traveling by air: 300 Baht/person/entry
Entering through land border and waterway: 150 Baht/person/entry
Fee collection shall be exempted for Diplomatic or Official Passport holders, and foreigners/migrant workers with work permit, transit passengers, babies and toddlers not over 2 years old, and others as specified by the Committee. Announcement of National Tourism Policy Committee on Imposition of Tourist Entry Fee on Foreign Travelers, B.E. …, shall take effect 90 days after being announced in the Royal Gazette.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation No. … (B.E. …) issued under the Factory Act, B.E. 2535
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation No. … (B.E. …) issued under the Factory Act, B.E. 2535, as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation No. … (B.E. …) issued under the Factory Act, B.E. 2535 requires factories that produce wastes or unused products, and operators of waste/unused product treatment and disposal factories to report concerned authorities on the detail of waste and unused products in accordance with rules, procedures and conditions prescribed by the Minister of Industry.
Title: Report on Road Accidents During the New Year Holidays 2023
The cabinet acknowledged the report on road accidents during the New Year Holidays 2023 following the implementation of road accident prevention and reduction operation for New Year Holidays (December 29, 2022 – January 4, 2023).
Gist
Road accident statistics during the New Year Holidays 2023 (7 days)
Number of accidents
(case)
Number of injuries (person)
(admit)
Number of casualties (person)
2,440
2,437
317
Result of the Implementation of road accident prevention and reduction operation for New Year Holidays (December 29, 2022 – January 4, 2023), in comparison with the same period of the past 3 years, shows that: 1) the number of accidents (2,440 cases) is down by 22.63%, number of injuries (2,437 persons) down by 23.02%, number of casualties (317 persons) down by 13.39%, number of serious accidents (21 cases) down by 30%, and number of deaths on spot (183 persons) down by 11.02%.
Title: Establishment of OKMD National Knowledge Center (Ratchadamnoen Center 1 and 2)
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Office of Knowledge Management and Development (Public Organization) (OKMD):
Approved for OKMD to establish OKMD : OKMD National Knowledge Center (Ratchadamnoen Center 1 and 2) in the area owned by the Crown Property Bureau
Approved the budget framework of 970 million Baht for 3 years (2024-2026) for the construction and space improvement.
OKMD is to negotiate with the Budget Bureau on space rental criteria
Gist
OKMD National Knowledge Center will be a learning center for the people of all ages that promotes potential searching, future knowledge and skills, and soft skills.
Title: Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on Exchange of Fishery Information Against IUU Fishing between Thailand’s Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (Department of Fishery) and Vietnam’s Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (Department of Fishery)
The cabinet approved a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on Exchange of Fishery Information Against IUU Fishing between Thailand’s Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (Department of Fishery) and Vietnam’s Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (Department of Fishery). Signing of the MOU will take place during the 7th Meeting of Vietnam-Thailand joint working group on anti-IUU fishing to be hosted by Vietnam in March 2023.
The MOU on Exchange of Fishery Information Against IUU Fishing is aimed for the two countries to share experiences, information, and measures pertaining to IUU fishing, especially on encroachment of fishing vessels, catch certificate, and traceability, to prevent IUU fishing products from entering the supply chain. Scopes of cooperation are: 1) exchanging information on transshipment and landing of aquatic animals at port, traceability, and verification of catch certificates; 2) enhancing capacity of anti-IUU fishing activities, such as compliance with port state measures, inspection, control and surveillance; and 3) collaborating and exchanging information on illegal fishing vessels under ASEAN network mechanism. The MOU will take effect for 5 years.
Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, through the Department of Fishery, has earlier signed MOUs and Agreements related to counter-IUU fishing with Fiji, South Korea, Myanmar, Japan, and Cambodia.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/65168