รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM emphasizes prioritization of climate change and Bangkok Goals on BCG Economy at APEC Economic Leaders’ Retreat


วันเสาร์ที่ 18 พฤศจิกายน 2566
PM emphasizes prioritization of climate change and Bangkok Goals on BCG Economy at APEC Economic Leaders’ Retreat
PM emphasizes prioritization of climate change and Bangkok Goals on BCG Economy at APEC Economic Leaders’ Retreat
November 17, 2023, at 1130hrs, (San Francisco, U.S.A. local time), at the Moscone Convention Center, San Francisco, U.S.A., Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin delivered an intervention on “Interconnectedness and Building Inclusive and Resilient Economies” at the APEC Economic Leaders’ Retreat (Session II). Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of his intervention as follows:
According to the Prime Minister, Thailand remains fully committed to multilateralism and APEC amidst global uncertainties, working towards an open, dynamic, resilient and peaceful Asia-Pacific community.
To realize this vision, first, climate change must be prioritized and the Bangkok Goals on BCG Economy must also be advanced. APEC made significant progress this year, with over 280 projects responding to all the goals. ABAC also made great strides, notably through the BCG Pledge and the inaugural Sustainable Future Forum to galvanize businesses and other stakeholders.
Second, open trade and investment are needed to drive growth and prosperity. APEC’s support for the rules-based multilateral trading system, with the WTO at its core is the key. Thailand also calls for continued efforts on the FTAAP2 agenda work plan to advance regional economic integration.
Additionally, the country will proactively accelerate other FTA negotiations and upgrade existing ones to address emerging trade challenges.
Third, improving connectivity is vital for resilient economies and supply chains. Thailand is developing a landbridge connecting the Indian Ocean and the Pacific Ocean, and has implemented visa exemption schemes to promote tourism. The country also supports continued work on a more inclusive APEC Business Travel Card to support MSMEs and start-ups.
In closing, the Prime Minister congratulated the US for a productive host year, and affirmed Thailand’s commitment to working with Peru to carry the achievements forward.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/74922