รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Southern provinces ordered to prepare for heavy rainfall during Dec 12-16


วันศุกร์ที่ 13 ธันวาคม 2567
13/12/2567
พิมพ์
​Southern provinces ordered to prepare for heavy rainfall during Dec 12-16
​Southern provinces ordered to prepare for heavy rainfall during Dec 12-16
December 13, 2024, Deputy Government Spokesperson Sasikarn Wattanachan disclosed that the Flood, Storm, and Landslide Disaster Relief Operations Center has issued a warning for heavy rainfall during December 12-16, 2024 which may cause flash flood and landslide in 9 Southern provinces, namely, Chumphon, Surat Thani, Nakhon Si Thammarat, Trang, Phatthalung, Songkhla, Pattani, Yala and Narathiwat. Rainfall is forecasted to peak on December 13-14, especially in Chumphon, Surat Thani, Nakhon Si Thammarat, Phatthalung, and Songkhla.
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense Phumtham Wechayachai, as chair of the Operations Center, has made an order to all risk areas to be on highest alert. The Disaster Prevention and Mitigation Regional Center Surat Thani (DPMRC11) has prepared 44 units of disaster response equipment to be distributed to Chumphon, Surat Thani, Nakhon Si Thammarat and Phatthalung. DPMRC12 (Songkhla) has also supplied the 5 lower Southern provinces with 712 units of disaster response equipment. All provinces have rehearsed their emergency response plans and prepared shelters for the evacuees.
According to the Deputy Government Spokesperson, rainfall will start to decrease once the crucial 2 days have passed, and should come to stop by December 18. However, water and flood management is of greatest concern, as water level in Pattani, Sai Buri, and Kolok Rivers is expected to be at the highest around December 19-20.
The Deputy Government Spokesperson added that the progress has been made for flood relief effort in the South. Telecommunications, telephones, and internet systems have been restored in all areas. Similarly, 135 public health service establishments that were previously affected have now all returned to normal service. The Operations Center has also ordered DDPM to find a way to rush and better facilitate compensation payment to flood-affected victims.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/91337