รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM reveals Government’s 10 policies to be immediately implemented


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 12 กันยายน 2567
12/09/2567
พิมพ์
PM reveals Government’s 10 policies to be immediately implemented
PM reveals Government’s 10 policies to be immediately implemented
September 12, 2024, at 0919hrs, at the Parliament House, Bangkok, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra delivered policy statements of the Council of Ministers to the Parliament. This is to declare guideline for state administration the incumbent Government will undertake in accordance with Section 162 of the Constitution of Thailand.
According to the Prime Minister, the Government is well aware of people's plights, and strives to create economic equality and opportunities through addressing debt issue, reducing expenses while increasing income to stimulate the economy, and solving all the security problems in a bid to bring back hope to Thai people the soonest.
The Prime Minister outlined 10 policies to be immediately undertaken:
First is restructuring of the entire debt system to help both formal and informal debtors while providing financial awareness and knowledge, and promoting new forms of savings.
Second is to empower SMEs, the country’s key economic driver, and protect them from unfair overseas competitions, especially through online platforms. The Government will also solves SME debts, and organize matching funds.
Third is reducing and restructuring energy and utility costs. Related laws and regulations will be amended. The Government will also promote mass transit development and introduce a one-price mass-transit cost in Bangkok area.
Fourth is legalizing informal economy and underground economy to increase state revenues which will be used for the development of education, public health, and public utilities.
Fifth is stimulating economy to build confidence, alleviate people’s financial burdens and increase their career opportunities. The Government’s priority is the vulnerable groups. The Digital Wallet scheme will be pushed ahead to increase access to financial sources for the development of villages and communities and career opportunities.
Sixth is promoting modern agriculture under the concept “Market-Led Innovation to Increase Revenues”, and reimplementing the “Thai Kitchen to The World” policy in line with the global demand for food security.
Seventh is to continue promoting tourism, and to take forward the success of visa restructuring to better facilitate tourists. New forms of tourism will be introduced in a bid to attract tourists and increase revenues, including man-made destinations, one-stop entertainment complex, and world-class concerts/festivals/sports events.
Eighth is addressing illicit drugs in a rigorous and comprehensive manner through collaborating with the neighboring countries to cut off production sources and dealers at the origin, intercepting and suppressing smuggling of illicit drugs, confiscating assets, and introducing monitoring system to prevent drug users from falling back to the vicious cycle.
Ninth is to fight against crimes, online and transnational crimes, and scammers, to increase capacity and efficiency in preventing and suppressing call center gangs and online scams, cooperate with the neighboring countries, and create mechanism for joint responsibility between the telecommunication operators and commercial banks.
Tenth is capacity building through improving social securities in line with the changing society, and creating opportunity and economic equality, especially among the vulnerabilities, i.e., people with disabilities, the elderlies, people from the ethnic groups, and stateless persons. This is to enhance their access to public rights and welfare.
The Prime Minister added that the Government committed to work together with all sectors to turn challenges into national development opportunities, while creating social and economic equality for all. The Government also has a strategic plan to promote Thailand as both industrial and agricultural hub, restoring the confidence and recognition on the country domestically and internationally.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/87943