รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Keynote Address by H.E. Mr. Srettha Thavisin at the UBS Asian Investment Conference 2024 


วันพุธที่ 29 พฤษภาคม 2567
29/05/2567
พิมพ์
​Keynote Address by H.E. Mr. Srettha Thavisin at the UBS Asian Investment Conference 2024
"Wisdom: An Eye on the Past, a View to the Future"
Wednesday, 29 May at 10.45 hrs. Grand Ballroom, Four Seasons Hong Kong
Keynote Address by H.E. Mr. Srettha Thavisin, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand at the UBS Asian Investment Conference 2024
"Wisdom: An Eye on the Past, a View to the Future"
Wednesday, 29 May at 10.45 hrs. Grand Ballroom, Four Seasons Hong Kong
Distinguished guests, Investors, and visionaries from around the world.
It is my great pleasure to be here at the UBS Asian Investment Conference today. This event serves as pivotal platform that has consistently provided invaluable insights, and fostered pioneering ideas in the financial world.
This year’s theme of "Wisdom: An eye on the past, a view to the future" resonates deeply with the journey of Thailand and our strategic vision for the future.
Wisdom, derived from our past experiences, guides us in addressing contemporary challenges and shaping our future. In Thailand, our history of resilience and adaptability has provided us with the foundation, to tackle today's economic complexities, and seize growth opportunities.
Today, I would like to share with you my government’s economic policies, as well as the vision we have for the future of Thailand.
On the policy side, our main objective is to create robust economic policies that drive growth, foster innovation, and ensure sustainability. Our approach targets fiscal stability, regulatory reforms, and strategic investments in key sectors.
For example, we are revising our tax codes to attract more investment, streamlining business processes, and removing bureaucratic hurdles to foster business innovation and entrepreneurship. Initiatives include simplifying work permits for foreign workers, developing a Super License system for target sectors, reducing import-export restrictions, and promoting clean energy. These efforts aim to boost business confidence and enhance Thailand’s global competitiveness.
Ladies and gentlemen, An important fiscal policy I want to highlight is our stimulus package through the Digital Wallet scheme.
Thailand has reported a GDP growth of 1.5% year-over-year for the first quarter of 2024. The full-year forecast for 2024 is expected to be between 2-3%. To enhance this growth, we must shift our economy into high gear.
Our progressive stimulus package will put 10,000 baht or about 275 USD into the hands of 50 million people. This will inject approximately 14 billion USD into our economy. The Digital Wallet project is expected to boost the economy by 1.2%-1.8% due to positive spillover effects extending into the following year.
In the past, the spending from cash given out by the government concentrated in big cities, and therefore did not create the desired ripple effect.
This Digital Wallet program, on the other hand, has an area-based spending scheme, which will direct the money into local communities throughout the country. This money will not only be spent on personal consumption, but will also be used to start and operate small businesses, multiplying the economic impact further.
In the long-run, the policy will lay the foundation for a nationwide blockchain-based financial payment system, with rigorous financial discipline and streamlined foreign investment processes.
In terms of trade policy, we will position Thailand as an integral partner for the global supply chains. Apart from reducing import-export restrictions, we will also speed up FTA negotiations with key economies, and actively participate in discussions and collaborations at bilateral and multilateral level.
I am pleased to announce that the Thai-EU FTA negotiations have progressed well, and we expect to conclude and sign the agreement by 2025. This FTA will greatly benefit Thailand, with research indicating a 2-3% increase in our exports.
For businesses, my government seeks to build the new engine of growth, driven by innovation and creativity. Future-proof industries such as the digital economy; smart electronics, particularly the upstream semiconductor; aerospace and defense; advanced agriculture and biotechnology; as well as climate resilient solutions, will be fully promoted and supported by the government.
We are also streamlining business process to improve ease of doing business through regulatory guillotine and digitization of government services, offering attractive package for foreign investments, establishing new special economic zones nationwide, and investing in large-scale infrastructure projects such as new airports and the Landbridge.
As a result, businesses will be able to reap benefits from more favorable regulations and greater connectivity. This will also disperse economic activities and social development across the nation, leaving no one behind.
For human development, we will ensure that our workforce is ready for the future, because they are our future. My government will provide education, skills, and lifelong learning that will give them access to the global value chains and markets.
Our plan includes strengthening our education system to prioritize Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) subjects from a young age, as well as vocational reskilling programs for existing workers to match the demand of the new S-curve industries.
To fill any remaining talent gaps in the short and medium term, we have plans to attract international talent by streamlining work permit and visa processes, and offering competitive incentives.
Of course, these days, we cannot talk about economic growth without addressing the issue of sustainability.
We recognize the various aspects of sustainability, encompassing environmental responsibility, social inclusivity, and economic prosperity.
My government is fully committed to pursuing a sustainable and inclusive path for growth through revving up our green economy and energy transition, while doubling our efforts to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050 and net-zero by 2065.
By 2040, Thailand will become a leading clean energy producer in the region, with 50% of all electricity in Thailand coming from renewable sources.
To this end, I invite anyone with the appetite to invest, or with expertise in the areas of renewable energy, hydrogen technology, energy storage, carbon capture and storage, and sustainability finance, to take a serious look at Thailand. I promise full support from the government.
This year, we also plan to issue almost 1 billion USD in sovereign sustainability-linked bonds, and would welcome investors to participate as part of our efforts to realize our sustainability and climate commitments.
Finally, financial and fiscal sustainability is something we take seriously. While we grow the economy, we will maintain public debt levels and fiscal deficits within manageable limits. With ample international reserves, Thailand will be able to support these growth initiatives and maintain economic stability.
Ladies and gentlemen, Now that we have discussed policies, let’s look at the vision we have for the future of Thailand. Earlier this year, I outlined my vision for Thailand's future to our citizens. A vision to strengthen our regional leadership and establish Thailand as Southeast Asia's crown jewel.
This involves leveraging our strengths to propel Thailand into a regional hub across 8 key sectors:
• Aviation Hub: Through the construction of new airports, the upgrade of existing ones, and the enhancement of transit capacities and services, we aim to establish Thailand as the main transit and maintenance center in the region.
• Our BKK airport is undergoing a major capacity expansion. We are constructing the new South Terminal for passengers, new cold chain and cargo handling facilities, and more runways. This will increase the total capacity from 60 million passengers to 150 million passengers.
• Apart from Bangkok, we will also construct additional airports in the North - Lanna International Airport, and the South - Andaman International Airport, as well as adding Sea Plane terminals to provide more choices of transportation.
• Tourism Hub: We plan to elevate Thailand's status as a world-class tourism destination, enriching visitor experiences through our unique culture, promoting secondary cities, easing travel restrictions, and positioning the country as a global "homestay" for global travelers.
• Next year will be the biggest year for tourism in Thailand. I am pleased to share that we are in discussion with organizers of world class events such as Art Basel, Formula 1, and many more that will make Thailand a great destination all year round.
• Wellness and Medical Hub: Building on our renowned healthcare system and traditional medicine, we aim to become a comprehensive healthcare destination for international patients.
• Agriculture and Food Hub: Affirming Thailand’s role as the "kitchen of the world", we are set to enhance agricultural productivity, contribute to global food security, and drive innovation in the food sector, including advancements in plant-based proteins and halal products.
• Logistics Hub: Significant investments in infrastructure, including the Landbridge, the expansion of highways, railways, and the development of a high-speed rail network, will facilitate trade and solidify our logistics capabilities.
• Future Mobility Hub: Thailand is already the largest auto and EV manufacturer in the region. However, we plan to attract even more investment into the EV industry, and support the development of a comprehensive EV ecosystem and future mobility technologies.
• Digital Economy Hub: Our goal is to attract investment in digital technologies, innovation, and AI, fostering deep tech companies with government incentives and support, to expand our high-tech industries and start-up ecosystem.
• Last but not least, Financial hub. Since this is one that is most relevant to this audience, let me delve into some of the details.
My government is preparing to launch a comprehensive new scheme that will establish a government agency dedicated to offering an all-encompassing package for financial firms and workers. This agency will handle licensing processes and support business operations in Thailand. Our approach is outward-looking, benchmarking industry needs to design what our country offers. My goal is to build a complete ecosystem where the financial sector and tech startups, regardless of size, can fully operate from Thailand to serve clients globally. With Thailand's neutral geopolitical stance, your business will remain unaffected by tensions among global powers.
My vision is to make Thailand “the place to be” for the regional head offices of financial firms such as investment banks, hedge funds, asset management companies, family offices, private equity firms, venture capitalists, and many more.
Startups and fintech companies will also enjoy a similar scheme, designed to make it easy to operate their businesses in-and-from Thailand, plus the access to our 300,000 tech talents in the market.
As you can see, these are the areas which Thailand is already well-known for, where Thailand has the “right to win”. With robust government support and investment, combined with Thailand's potential, I firmly believe this vision is within our reach.
Ladies and gentlemen, As we stand on the brink of these revolutionary changes, I invite you: our global partners and investors, to join us in this journey of transformation. Thailand offers a fertile environment for innovation and growth. Together, we can create a future that is prosperous, sustainable, and inclusive.
Finally, my personal commitment to you is: “What should be done, will be done.” So I encourage you to engage with us to explore how we can work together to achieve mutual success. My door is always open.
Thank you for your attention. I look forward to discussions and fruitful partnerships that will emerge from this conference.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/83637