รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand – Cambodia to celebrate 75th anniversary of diplomatic relations


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 24 เมษายน 2568
24/04/2568
พิมพ์
Thailand – Cambodia to celebrate 75th anniversary of diplomatic relations
Thailand – Cambodia to celebrate 75th anniversary of diplomatic relations
April 23, 2025, at 1150hrs, at the Peace Palace, Phnom Penh, Kingdom of Cambodia, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra and Prime Minister Samdech Moha Borvor Thipadei HUN Manet of Cambodia witnessed the signing of the following 7 agreements and MOUs:
1. Agreement between the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Government of the Kingdom of Cambodia on the Management, Maintenance, and Usage of Thailand - Cambodia Friendship Bridge (Ban Nong Ian – Stung Bot)
2. Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Ministry of Environment of the Kingdom of Cambodia On Transboundary Environmental Pollution Cooperation
3. Exchange of Notes between Thailand International Cooperation Agency, Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Thailand and Directorate General of Technical Vocational Education and Training on Revision of Agreement for the Establishment of the Cambodian - Thai Skill Development Center
4. Agreement on the Employment Workers between the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Government of the Kingdom of Cambodia
5. Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Government of the Kingdom of Cambodia on Labour Cooperation
6. Record of Discussion between the Neighbouring Countries Economic Development Cooperation Agency (Public Organisation) of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Ministry of Public Works and Transport of the Kingdom of Cambodia for the Technical Assistance on the Detailed Design for the Improvement of the National Road No.57 (Section of Battambang-Prom International Border Checkpoint) Project
7. Agreement between the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Government of the Kingdom of Cambodia on the Construction of the New Border Bridge at Nation Border Check Point Ban Pak Kard, Pong Nam Ron District, Chanthaburi Province
The two Prime Ministers later cochaired the launch of symbol for the 75th Anniversary of the Establishment of Diplomatic Relations between Thailand and Cambodia, followed by a joint press conference, gist of which was disclosed by Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed honored to have paid an official visit to the Kingdom of Cambodia, especially on the occasion of the 75th Anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries. She was also pleased to join Prime Minister Hun Manet in officially launching the symbol to celebrate the occasion.
The two Prime Ministers earlier had a friendly and constructive discussion. Both are committed to strengthening relations and cooperation based on trust, mutual respect and mutual interest, especially on the following important issues:
1) Strategic partnership: Both the Prime Ministers were pleased with the preparation of the joint action plan to ensure that strategic partnership between Thailand and Cambodia bring about tangible benefits to the people of both countries. They also congratulated the opening of the Royal Thai Consulate-General in Siem Reap, and the plan for an opening of Cambodian Consulate-General in Songkhla Province.
2) Security partnership: The two sides agreed to promote closer military cooperation at all levels to maintain peace and stability along the border. The Prime Minister took the opportunity to thank the Prime Minister of Cambodia for strong cooperation between police authorities of the two countries in suppressing call center gangs and online scams. Thailand commits to continue working closely together with Cambodia to eradicate crime rings at the common border area.
The Prime Minister also expressed confidence that the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding on Transboundary Environmental Pollution Cooperation would further strengthening cooperation on the fight against PM2.5 particulates through exchange of information and capacity building.
3) Development of border areas: Thailand is ready to host a joint cabinet retreat at the border area on occasion of the official opening of the Thailand - Cambodia Friendship Bridge, and is committed to expediting border landmine clearance and promoting border special economic development zones, as well as accelerating negotiations on road transport agreement to allow private vehicles to cross the border, and developing cross-border rail logistics to reduce costs and increase logistics efficiency, which will also help promoting connectivity between the two countries and the region.
4) Economic cooperation reinforcement: The target is set to increase bilateral trade value from US$10 billion to US$15 billion by 2027. The Prime Minister thanked Cambodia for its continued support of Thai investors, who are currently the 9th largest foreign investors in Cambodia. Both parties also came to terms on working together within the ASEAN and Mekong sub-regional frameworks to promote regional economic integration and connectivity.
5) Tourism promotion: Both parties agreed to advance the “Six Countries, One Destination” initiative and revise border crossing agreements to better facilitate cross-border travel for tourism.
6) Employment promotion: To promote legal employment of Cambodian workers in Thailand to ensure that workers can access appropriate benefits and welfare.
7) People-to-people understanding: To continue to promote friendship and understanding between people of the two countries, especially among youths. Various activities will be held throughout the year to celebrate the 75th anniversary of the diplomatic relations and long-standing friendship.
After the joint press conference, the luncheon hosted by the Cambodian Prime Minister was held in honor of the Thai Prime Minister.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/95682