รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Umesh, Thai Trade Representative, holds talks with Asean Sec-Gen to boost intra-Asean trade to help offset possible impact from tariff war


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 24 เมษายน 2568
Umesh, Thai Trade Representative, holds talks with Asean Sec-Gen to boost intra-Asean trade to help offset possible impact from tariff war
Umesh, Thai Trade Representative, holds talks with Asean Sec-Gen to boost intra-Asean trade to help offset possible impact from tariff war
Umesh Pandey, the Thailand Trade Representative (TTR) and Kao Kim Hourn, the Secretary General of the Asean, agreed that the 10-member Asean grouping needs to continue to be a proponent of the rule based, open, and inclusive multilateral trading system.
The discussions between the Umesh and the Asean Secretary General stressed the need for a greater intra-Asean trading to help offset the impact that the Asean member states may have from the ongoing tariff war.
Kao and Umesh both agreed that that the aim of the Asean group to raise the intra-Asean trade to 35% from the current 21.5% that was decided by the member states was a good move that would help keep the economic momentum of the region despite the possible upheaval that may be caused due to the tariff war.
As part of the move to help achieve this goal it was agreed that all sides need to speed up the process of negotiating the bilateral and multilateral free trade agreements (FTAs).
The aim of expediting the FTAs is to help keep the 670 million people of the Asean group relevant on the world stage and keep the neutrality of the group as a key trading block of the world.
The discussion focused on ways to help bring down some of the non-tariff barriers (NTBs) and also undertake more bilateral and multilateral FTAs, apart from upgrading some of the FTAs to be able to add more goods/services within the various agreements that have been signed in the past.
Kao and Umesh also agreed that newer markets such as Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) need to be looked into and FTA with the GCC needs to be expedited. Apart from this, negotiations which have been ongoing for years need to be taken more speeded up as the world is witnessing an era of economic uncertainty.
During the discussions many other issues were raised such as expansion of dialogue partners for the 10-member Asean grouping down to issues that have been stuck in the process such as Asean Power Grid (APG).
Apart from this issues such as the ongoing trade negotiations with the United States was also raised. Asean block’s trade negotiations with the US and the individual country’s negotiations with the United States was discussed and what the impact of concessions that the individual country gives could have a wider impact on the other FTAs.
Both Kao and Umesh agreed that the Asean takes their relationship with United States very seriously and that the block has been working very actively on many issues and on many fronts at all levels in different sectors cut across the three pillars of Asean - political/security, economic and social/cultural.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/95691