รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on February 21, 2023.


วันอาทิตย์ที่ 26 กุมภาพันธ์ 2566
26/02/2566
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on February 21, 2023.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Digital Civil Registration Services (No. …), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Ministerial Regulation on Digital Civil Registration Services (No. …), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Interior. The Ministry is also ordered to take opinions of the Budget Bureay and the Bank of Thailand into consideration.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Digital Civil Registration Services (No. …), B.E. … is a revision to the Ministerial Regulation on Digital Civil Registration Services, B.E 2565 to prescribe exemption of fees on digital civil registration services in order to mitigate financial burden of the people.
Exemption of fees on digital civil registration services will be applied to the following 3 ministerial regulations issued under the Civil Registration Act, B.E. 2534:
1) Ministerial Regulations Prescribing Fees and Exemption of Fees Related to Civil Registration, B.E. 2562
2) Ministerial Regulations Prescribing Compliance of Non-Thai Citizens with Civil Registration Regulations, B.E. 2562
3) Ministerial Regulations Prescribing Fees and and Exemption of Fees on Notification or Request Making After Expiration of the Period, B.E. 2562
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Digital Civil Registration Services (No. …), B.E. … shall come into force upon being announced in the Royal Gazette.
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Bangkok (PhasiCharoen district’s Bang Duan, Bang Wa, Bang Chak, Khuha Sawan, and Pak Khlong PhasiCharoen subdistricts; Chom Thong district’s Bang Khunthien, Bang Kho, Chom Thong, and Bang Mod subdistricts; Bang Khunthiendistrict’s Tha Kham, and Samae Damsubdistricts, Thung Khru district’s Bang Mod and Thung Khru subdistricts; and Rat Burana district’s Bang Pakok, and Rat Burana subdistricts), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Bangkok (PhasiCharoen district’s Bang Duan, Bang Wa, Bang Chak, Khuha Sawan, and Pak Khlong PhasiCharoen subdistricts; Chom Thong district’s Bang Khunthien, Bang Kho, Chom Thong, and Bang Mod subdistricts; Bang Khunthien district’s Tha Kham, and Samae Dam subdistricts, ThungKhru district’s Bang Mod and Thung Khrusubdistricts; and Rat Burana district’s Bang Pakok, and Rat Burana subdistricts), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Interior.
Gist
The Royal Decree prescribes areas in Bangkok (Phasi Charoen district’s Bang Duan, Bang Wa, Bang Chak, Khuha Sawan, and Pak Khlong PhasiCharoen subdistricts; Chom Thong district’s Bang Khunthien, Bang Kho, Chom Thong, and Bang Mod subdistricts; Bang Khunthien district’s Tha Kham, and Samae Dam subdistricts, ThungKhru district’s Bang Mod and Thung Khrusubdistricts; and Rat Burana district’s Bang Pakok, and Rat Burana subdistricts) to be expropriated for construction and expansion of a local road linking Phetchakasem and Suk SawatRoads, and a street linking the local road and Kanchanapisek Rd. Land survey and appropriation shall commence within 120 days after the Royal Decree is in effect.
Title: Draft Royal Decree Issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Revenue Taxes (No. …) B.E. … (Tax exemption on joint investment in 2nd LNG Receiving Terminal in Ban Nong Fab, Map Ta Phut Sub-district, Mueang Rayong District, Rayong)
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Royal Decree Issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Revenue Taxes (No. …) B.E. … (Tax exemption on joint investment in 2nd LNG Receiving Terminal in Ban Nong Fab, Map Ta Phut Sub-district, Mueang Rayong District, Rayong), as proposed by Ministry of Finance.
Gist
The draft Royal Decree prescribes exemption of corporate income tax (previously 20%), value added tax (previously 7%), specific business tax (previously 3.3%) and stamp duty (previously 0.5%) for companies or juristic partnerships,PTTLNG Company Limited Ltd. (PTTLNG), for the proceeds received from transfer of assets, sale of goods, and for the execution of instruments arising from the joint investment in the 2nd LNG Receiving Terminal Project located at Ban Nong Fab, Map Ta Phut Sub-district, Mueang Rayong District, Rayong.
The draft Royal Decree shall be taken into force the next day after being announced in the Royal Gazette.
Title: Request for budget allocation from Government’s contingency fund for emergency (FY2023) for procurement of bulletproof-armored trucks to be used in the Southern border provinces
The cabinet approved budget allocation from Government’s contingency fund for emergency (FY2023) for procurement of bulletproof-armored trucks to be used in the Southern border provinces for the budget framework of 396 million Baht. This is as proposed by the Royal Thai Police.
Gist
The budget is approved for the procurement of 150 bulletproof-armored double cab trucks (1 ton, 4-wheel drive), at 2.64 million Baht per truck, to be used (substituted) by the Command Center, Royal Thai Police Forward Post in Satengsubdistrict, Muang Yala district, Yala province.
Title: Request for budget allocation from Government’s contingency fund for emergency (FY2023) for procurement of CCTVs under the Prevention and Suppression of Torture and Enforced Disappearance Act,B.E. 2565
The cabinet approved budget allocation from Government’s contingency fund for emergency (FY2023) for procurement of CCTVs under the Prevention and Suppression of Torture and Enforced Disappearance Act, B.E. 2565, for the budget framework of 444.81 million Baht. This is as proposed by the Royal Thai Police.
Gist
The budget is approved for the procurement of CCTVs under the Prevention and Suppression of Torture and Enforced Disappearance Act, B.E. 2565.
Title: Review of Cabinet’s resolution (October 1, 2019) on action plan to drive the national agenda “solving the problem of particulate pollution”​
The cabinet approved the delay in imposing Euro 5 emission standard on newly manufactured vehicles, to be adopted as part of the Government’s action plan to drive the national agenda “solving the problem of particulate pollution”. The delay is made from the year 2021 to January 1, 2024 due to the spread of COVID-19 pandemic which has hindered private sector’s manufacturing plan and their compliance with the enforcement of Euro 5 emission standard in 2021. The cabinet also assigned Ministry of Industry to finalize the plan to impose Euro 6 emission standard on newly manufactured vehicles so that vehicle manufacturers will have time to prepare for the enforcement without impacting their operation plan.
Gist
Enforcement postponement of Euro 5 emission standard will practically allow the private sector to be ready for full compliance. Some of them have already manufactured new cars in accordance with the Euro 5 emission standard, while others are in the middle of revamping their manufacturing process. As for the incentives, Ministry of Finance has announced excise tax cut for passenger pickup vehicles that emit less than 0.0005 g./km of particulate matters (PM). Additionally, Ministry of Energy also made an announcement on gasoline quality equivalent to the Euro 5 standard.
Euro emission standard is the vehicle emission standard for pollution from the use of new vehicles in the European Union. Euro 1 emission standard came into force in 1992 in Europe. Thailand adopted Euro 1 emission standard in 1998, and continues to elevate the standard over the years to the currently-imposed Euro 4 in 2012. Euro 5 and 6 will further limit nitrogen oxide (NOx) and hydrocarbon (HC) emission, and put in place a particulate number standard (PN).
Title: Compensation to fishing trawlers taken out of system
The cabinet has made approval to a proposal of the Southern Border Provinces Development Strategy Committee to allocate Government’s FY2023 contingency budget for emergency at the total amount of 163.36 million Baht for the compensation given to fisherfolks who took part in the Government’s program to take fishing trawlers out of the system in a bid to curb IUU fishing and to promote sustainable marine resource management in the Southern border provinces.
Gist
The budget will be used to buy 96 trawlers from local fisherfolks in Pattani province. These fishing trawlers have been approved for compensation, following the history check by a working group, led by Pattani provincial governor, on qualifications of boats and owners, and on the issue of child labor.
The Government’s program to take fishing trawlers out of the system for sustainable marine resource management in the Southern border provinces will enable Thailand to: 1) manage its fleets and their activities for sustainable use of resources; 2) manage total allowable catch (TAC) for each licensed fishing boat; 3) reduce risk of IUU fishing, and 4) provide financial assistance to fisherfolks who wish to give up fishing to start a new career.
Title: Provision of financial assistance to flood-affected victims of 2022-rainy season
The cabinet approved an extension of period for distribution of financial assistance to the victims from 60 days to 90 days after the budget allocation date (March 20, 2023). This is to ensure that the operation be in accordance with related regulations and criteria, and that financial assistance provision be carried out in an accurate, transparent, and fair manner.
Gist
According to Ministry of Interior’s report, there are 594,477 households registered for financial assistance in Bangkok and other 56 provinces, out of 1,046,460 households reported to be affected by flood disaster during the rainy season of 2022. The Department of Disaster Prevention and Mitigation forwarded the list of registered households to Government’s Savings Bank, and as of February 17, 2023, 553,795 households have been given financial assistance, for the total budget of 3,503,555,000 Baht.
Additional budget of 147,789,000 Baht is estimated to be given to the remaining 25,947 households out of the balance of 2,607,196,000 Baht in budget allocation for the purpose.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/65462