รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM meets with Cambodian Deputy PM and Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation  


วันศุกร์ที่ 24 กุมภาพันธ์ 2566
24/02/2566
พิมพ์
​PM meets with Cambodian Deputy PM and Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation
​PM meets with Cambodian Deputy PM and Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation
February 23, 2023, at 1600hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Prak Sokhonn, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation of the Kingdom of Cambodia, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his official visit to Thailand. Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed about gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure to meet with Cambodian Deputy Prime Minister, and conveyed his regards to Prime Minister Hun Sen. He also congratulated Cambodia’s ASEAN chairmanship’s success during which Thailand had several bilateral and multilateral meetings with Prime Minister Hun Sen to push ahead wide-ranging cooperation. The Prime Minister endorsed close collaboration between public agencies of both countries in a bid to translate the meeting outcomes into action. He also wished Cambodia’s success on hosting the Sea Games later this year. As the Joint Boundary Committee (JBC) between Thailand and Cambodia has not met for over 10 years, the Prime Minister called on Cambodia to consider hosting the next JBC meeting in order to deliberate survey and boundary demarcation for the interest of border people of both the countries.
Cambodian Deputy Prime Minister conveyed his regards from Prime Minister Hun Sen to the Prime Minister. His official visit to Thailand this time is to follow up on the progress of the meeting outcomes between the two leaders, and to tighten relations and cooperation between the two countries in a comprehensive manner. He also congratulated the opening of the bridge across the Stung Bot-Ban Nong Ean border, which is very meaningful to the Cambodians as the bridge would greatly contribute to an increase of border trade and facilitate cross-border traveling between people of the two countries.
Both parties also discussed issues of mutual interest:
The Prime Minister expressed hope that Thailand and Cambodia would work together to promote economic recovery in a stable and sustainable manner, to achieve the target of US$15 billion in mutual trade value within 2025. The Cambodian Deputy Prime Minister was pleased with an increase of mutual trade value, and was also confident that the two countries would achieve the target.
The Prime Minister thanked Cambodian Government for its cooperation in eradicating and suppressing call center gangs and scams, while Cambodian Deputy Prime Minister affirmed his country’s readiness to work together with Thailand on the matter. Both parties agreed to set up a joint working committee as a key mechanism to address call center gangs and scams in a more efficient manner, as the problem not only affects Thailand and Cambodia, but the region as a whole.
The Prime Minister also conveyed his appreciation toward Prime Minister Hun Sen for agreeing on the humanitarian demining mission along the border area for safety of people of the two countries. Thailand has made suggestion that the mission start with 10 pilot areas. The Deputy Prime Minister affirmed Cambodia’s commitment to cooperate with Thailand for public safety.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/65403