รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM hands down “proactive economic diplomacy” policy to Team Thailand


วันอังคารที่ 21 พฤศจิกายน 2566
PM hands down “proactive economic diplomacy” policy to Team Thailand
PM hands down “proactive economic diplomacy” policy to Team Thailand
November 21, 2023, at 15.00 hrs, at Wites Smosorn, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin presided over the 2023 Meeting of Thai Ambassadors, Consul-Generals, Commercial Attaché, and Investment Attaché to countries around the world, and handed down the Government’s policy on “Proactive Economic Diplomacy”. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure to chair the meeting where both the domestic and overseas “Team Thailand”, be it, ambassadors, diplomats, specialists (such as agricultural attaché, commercial attaché, etc.), and representatives of specialized government agencies (e.g., the Board of Investment of Thailand, etc.), met and worked together to set the direction and strategy for the new era of foreign policy, making it tangible and “edible” diplomacy for better wellbeing of the people and on the basis of national interest.
The Prime Minister raised a couple of questions as to what the people and the business sector want in the country’s foreign policy and what would be their feedback. He also emphasized the importance of customer-centric government, business senses, and sense of urgency, as well as the need for a paradigm shift that focuses more on why this task needs to be done, what would be the impact, and how it can be achieved. The Prime Minister took the opportunity to propose two function-based frameworks for laying out related working strategies:
First is works related to economic diplomacy, i.e., trade and investment promotion. The Government has set its position as supporter while encouraging the private sector to drive and advance economic growth. It also has the policies to promote ease of doing business and export of Thai products, and to expedite FTA negotiations. The Prime Minister wanted Team Thailand to liaise with the private sector, guiding and communicating with them on market knowledge and economic insights. They need to work proactively to ensure the Thai private sector’s prompt response and action, and to encourage and facilitate foreigners to visit Thailand either for tourism or business.
The Prime Minister reaffirmed Thailand’s neutral diplomacy and the country’s position as a friend to every country. Thailand needs to understand dynamism of each country, and harnesses the information gained to enhance trade and investment opportunity for national benefits. This is “tangible diplomacy”.
According to the Prime Minister, both inward and outward foreign direct investment must be prioritized. Team Thailand must act as a salesman to provide information on the country’s megaprojects, such as the Landbridge project, amplify soft powers, i.e., products and services, and promote Thailand as the region’s MICE hub. As for outward foreign direct investment, they are tasked to facilitate Thai investment in the foreign lands, especially in the more competitive countries, and bring back benefits to Thailand. During the 30th APEC Economic Leaders' Week (AELW), a group of Thai investors accompanied the Prime Minister to meet with the foreign counterparts and explore outward foreign direct investment possibilities.
The Prime Minister called on the Team Thailand to utilize “proactive economic diplomacy” through working together in crafting the integrative and inclusive action plan for promotion of trade, import and export, and both inward and outward foreign direct investment.
Second is the role related to Thailand’s dignity and integrity, and assistance provided to overseas Thais and Thai businesses. The Prime Minister particularly underscored protection of the country’s dignity and honor of the royal family. Team Thailand must place great importance on professionalism and responsibility. One of the most important tasks is to assist and facilitate the Thai delegations to ensure the success of their missions. They are urged to create positive work culture as professional diplomats.
Toward the end of the meeting, the Prime Minister emphasized teamworking, as the Team Thailand is composed of representatives of various agencies. They should support and provide one another with the needed information and knowledge. The Prime Minister expressed confidence on their capability and expertise as the Government’s Team Thailand members, and urged them to undertake a new diplomacy with the goal to promote national growth, and Thailand’s honor and dignity at the global stage.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/75053