รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM supports the growing opportunities which arise from the expansion of the bubble tea market in Italy, expecting a market value of 3,600 million baht by 2027 


วันศุกร์ที่ 23 มิถุนายน 2566
PM supports the growing opportunities which arise from the expansion of the bubble tea market in Italy, expecting a market value of 3,600 million baht by 2027
with an average annual growth rate of 18%.
June 23, 2023, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha has provided policy guidelines to relevant agencies in order to support Thai entrepreneurs in exporting Thai beverage products to international markets. The bubble tea market in Italy in 2022 had a value of 42 million euros (approximately 1,500 million baht), accounting for more than 15% of the wider European market. It has been estimated to grow at an average annual rate of 18% and reach a projected market value of 98 million euros (approximately 3,600 million baht) by the year 2027. This presents a great opportunity for Thai entrepreneurs and Thai restaurants to expand the Thai tea and ingredients market abroad.
The Ministry of Commerce, in collaboration with the Department of International Trade Promotion (DITP) at the Thai Trade Office in Milan, Italy, reported that there has been a significant increase in the number of bubble tea shops in major cities across Italy, amounting to 236 shops as of March 2023. Seeing as TasteAtlas ranked Thai Iced Tea as the 7th best non-alcoholic beverage in the world out of the top 100, this is a good opportunity for Thai entrepreneurs and Thai restaurants to enter the Thai tea market and supply ingredients for making bubble tea to consumers in Italy. There are also valuable opportunities to introduce new and healthy beverages by incorporating high-quality Thai herbs such as fragrant Thai tea, green tea, and jasmine tea, as well as Thai fruit-flavored teas such as aromatic coconuts, mangoes, durians,  passion fruits, and taros.
According to the Government Spokesperson Prime Minister emphasized that the he confidences in the potential and quality of Thai entrepreneurs and products, respectively. It is important to evaluate the global market growth and follow international market trends in order to timely promote Thai products internationally. Moreover, Thai government is ready to support and facilitate the promotion of Thai products in foreign markets and believes it will significantly contribute to the success back to Thai economies.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/69600