รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM pleased with the innovation of portable kidney screening kits from Chulalongkorn University doctors committed to support educational institutions in medical science 


วันศุกร์ที่ 23 มิถุนายน 2566
23/06/2566
พิมพ์
​PM pleased with the innovation of portable kidney screening kits from Chulalongkorn University doctors committed to support educational institutions in medical science
and public health research
June 21, 2023, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha commends the success in research and development (R&D) of an innovative portable early-stage chronic kidney disease screening kit test by the Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Chulalongkorn University in collaboration together with the researcher network of the Health Systems Research Institute (HSRI) and the research team on “Development of Early - Stage Chronic Kidney Disease Screening using Albuminuria Test Kit”.
According to patient statistics and reports from hospitals under the Ministry of Public Health, there were 1,007,251 patients with chronic kidney disease in 2021. This research project has received research funding from the Health Systems Research Institute (HSRI) to evaluate the effectiveness of a chronic kidney disease screening kit in the early stages of chronic kidney disease, as well as to develop a point of care testing approach for kidney disease screening. This includes a kidney disease screening kit, a data recording system, an automatic data collector and processor, and a new innovative feature to assess kidney function and display examination values. The research has developed an innovative model for screening earlier stages of chronic kidney disease, as the public are now able to identify early indicators of kidney disease through the measurement of Albumin levels.
As there is a growing trend of chronic kidney disease in the Thai population, this innovative portable screening kit/device can help increase accessibility to healthcare services and strengthen the Thai healthcare system. Additionally, it can be a convenient alternative for people living in more remote or local areas far from hospitals or clinics. This portable screening kit can also be used in fieldwork, community hospitals, or in local health centers that may lack laboratory facilities, allowing the general population to have greater access to chronic kidney disease screening.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Prime Minister commends the research and development of innovations in the field of public health as a means of fostering the participation and involvement of educational institutions, advancing technological innovation, and utilizing it for the improvement of the Thai healthcare system. This aligns with the government’s public healthcare policy goals that aims to increase research capabilities in medical science and public health. This is yet another remarkable achievement resulting from collaboration across all sectors.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/69599