รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with Chair of Japan –Thailand Trade and Economic Committee


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 16 มีนาคม 2566
16/03/2566
พิมพ์
PM meets with Chair of Japan –Thailand Trade and Economic Committee
PM meets with Chair of Japan –Thailand Trade and Economic
Committee
March 15, 2023, at 0830hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House,
Mr. Suzuki Yoshihisa, vice-chairman of the Board of Councilors of Japan Business Federation
(Keidanren), and Mr. Suzuki Jun, chair of Japan –Thailand Trade and Economic Committee, paid
a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of
their visit to Thailand. Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government
Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed vice-chairman of Keidanren and chair of Japan –Thailand Trade
and Economic Committee, and conveyed his regards to Keidanren chairman. Thailand and
Japan have elevated relations to comprehensive strategic partnership during the visit of
Japanese Prime Minister to the country at the APEC Economic Leaders&#39; Week. Thailand stands
ready to advance cooperation with Japan in a tangible manner, and provide support to
Japanese investment in the country. He thanked Keidanren for promoting economic relations
and cooperation between the two countries, and supporting Thailand’s hosting of APEC, as
secretary-general of the APEC Business Advisory Council (ABAC).
Chair of Japan –Thailand Trade and Economic Committee expressed pleasure to visit Thailand,
and to follow up on the discussions made during the Nikkei Forum last year. He commended
the success of the Prime Minister and the Thai Government on the adoption of the Bangkok
Goals on BCG Economy at the APEC Leaders’ Meeting, which is in line with Japan’s policy on the
climate change and green economic development. He expressed confidence that the two
countries have potential to explore new trade and investment opportunities in relations to the
BCG economy, green energy, and environmentally-friendly industries.
Both parties also discussed other issues of mutual interest:
Both parties affirmed commitment to strengthen economic cooperation. The Prime Minister
thanked Japanese private sector for their confidence in Thailand, and for continually using
Thailand as production base. Chair of Japan –Thailand Trade and Economic Committee
commended Thailand’s potentials and committed to work together with the country to promote
environment conducive to business operation of the Japanese investors. Japan also agreed to
promote mutual trade and investment through the Regional Comprehensive Economic
Partnership (RCEP).
On environment and clean energy cooperation, both parties agreed that Thailand and Japan are
now going through a transition to clean energy to achieve carbon neutrality and net-zero GHG
emission. Thailand is developing a National Energy Plan and the Transition Plan to Zero
Emission Vehicles (ZEVs). Therefore, Japan’s investment in energy technology and low-carbon
energy would be welcomed. Keidanren member companies are also invited to expand their
investment in the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC), especially in low-carbon technology
industries which they have expertise.
With regard to agricultural and food cooperation, the Prime Minister praised Japan for efficient
management of agroindustry, which is relevant with the Thai context where most people are in
the agricultural sector. He hoped that Japan would consider investment with a Thai counterpart
in the area of agroindustry, on which Chair of Japan –Thailand Trade and Economic Committee
agreed to take this into consideration. He also stated that Japan has placed great importance
on food security, and hoped for the Thai private sector to consider investment in Japan in the
area, as Thai food is immensely popular among the Japanese.
The Prime Minister took the occasion to wish Keidanren a success in the 24 th meeting of Japan
Thailand Trade and Economic Committee Meeting which is to be held the next day, and the first
in 8 years. The meeting is expected to further reinforce Thailand-Japan economic relations
through discussion on promotion of pleasant investment environment, and economic
cooperation in such areas as smart cities, tourism, and environment. Chair of Japan –Thailand
Trade and Economic Committee expressed belief that the meeting would be fruitful for the
benefit of both countries.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/66211