รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Blue whale to be listed as conserved wild animal


วันพุธที่ 24 พฤษภาคม 2566
24/05/2566
พิมพ์
​Blue whale to be listed as conserved wild animal
​Blue whale to be listed as conserved wild animal
May 23, 2023, Deputy Government Spokesperson Traisuree Taisaranakul disclosed that the cabinet has approved in principle the draft Royal Decree on additional kind of conserved wild animals (No. …), B.E. … which prescribes balaenptera musculus (blue whale) as additional kind of conserved wild animals. The draft Royal Decree shall be merged into one law with another draft Royal Decree, approved earlier by the cabinet on September 6, 2022, which prescribes buceros vigil or rhinoplax vigil (helmeted hornbill) as conserved wild animal.
Prescription of balaenptera musculus and buceros vigil/rhinoplax vigil as conserved wild animals has been proceeded according to Section 6(2) of the Wild Animal Conservation and Protection Act, B.E.2562 which stipulates that “in the case where the Director-General, with the approval of the Commission, considers that any kinds of wild animals should be prescribed as conserved wild animals in addition to those prescribed in paragraph one, it shall be made by enactment of a Royal Decree.”
Balaenptera musculus was earlier listed as protected wild animal. They are found in all oceans, and were spotted in Thailand’s Andaman Coast 3 times. However, intensive hunting in the past for commercial and local fishing purposes, coupling with the declining availability of its primary food source, whether due to climate change, ocean acidification or other factors, have brought balaenptera musculus to the brink of extinction. International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) has, therefore, included balaenptera musculus in the IUCN Red List as endangered species (EN). Thailand also lists balaenptera musculus in Thailand Red Data.
Once the law takes effect, balaenptera musculus and buceros vigil/rhinoplax vigil will be strictly conserved and preserved in the similar manner as other 19 kinds of conserved wild animals under the Wild Animal Conservation and Protection Act, B.E.2562, which include mammal wild animals (14), bird-species wild animals (3), reptile wild animals (1), and fish-species wild animals (1).

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/68496