รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand and Romania aims to reinforce relations and cooperation in a tangible manner


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 17 สิงหาคม 2566
17/08/2566
พิมพ์
Thailand and Romania aims to reinforce relations and cooperation in a tangible manner
Thailand and Romania aims to reinforce relations and cooperation
in a tangible manner
August 16, 2023, at 1030hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House,
H.E. Mr. Bogdan Badea, Ambassador of Romania to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime
Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his completion of tenure.
Deputy Government Spokesperson Rachada Dhanadirek disclosed gist of the meeting as
follows:
The Prime Minister commended the Romanian Ambassador’s role in strengthening relations
between Thailand and Romania throughout his tenure in the country, especially his support
given to the Thai-Romanian Chamber of Commerce and cultural activities. He congratulated the
50 th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the two countries this year, and affirmed the
Thai Government’s readiness to further forge cooperation with Romania in the potential areas,
and to provide support to the incoming Romanian Ambassador.
The Romanian Ambassador expressed pleasure to have been tenured in Thailand throughout
the past 6 years, and appreciated the Prime Minister’s recognition on his effort to reinforce
relations and cooperation between business and private sector of the two countries in a tangible
manner. He also affirmed that the incoming Ambassador would continue with this endeavor.
Both parties also discussed the following issues of mutual interest:
On economic and trade cooperation, the Prime Minister hoped that there be more exchange of
visits and joint activities between Thai and Romanian private sectors through the Thai-
Romanian Chamber of Commerce. The Ambassador stated that it was his priority to forge
economic and trade cooperation with Thailand, and would hand over this mission to the
incoming Ambassador for further and more tangible cooperation in this area.
The Prime Minister also expressed pleasure with an increasing number of Romanian tourists to
Thailand, as tourism engenders people-to-people exchange and interaction. The number of
Romanian tourists in Thailand before COVID-19 was approx. 30,000, while the post-COVID
number decreased to 14,000. The Ambassador expected that more and more Romanian tourists
will visit the country.
With regard to cultural cooperation, the Romanian Ambassador was of the view that Thailand
and Romania share more or less similarity in culture. However, due to the distance between the
two countries, people-to-people relations are not that notable. He expressed hope for an
increase in cultural exchange between people of the two countries, especially to mark the 50 th
anniversary of diplomatic relations.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/71401