รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM delivers speech at 3rd Asia Cooperation Dialogue (ACD) Summit


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 3 ตุลาคม 2567
03/10/2567
พิมพ์
PM delivers speech at 3rd Asia Cooperation Dialogue (ACD) Summit
PM delivers speech at 3rd Asia Cooperation Dialogue (ACD) Summit
October 3, 2024, at 1030hrs (Doha local time), at the Ritz-Carlton Doha, State of Qatar, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra attended and delivered a speech at the 3rd Asia Cooperation Dialogue (ACD) Summit. Prime Minister’s advisor Jirayu Houngsab disclosed gist of her speech as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed sincere appreciation to His Highness the Amir of the State of Qatar for the warm welcome and hospitality, and congratulated Qatar for the successful convening of the 3rd ACD Summit. The theme, “Sports Diplomacy”, reminded the Prime Minister of the profound and powerful role sports play in bridging divides, bringing people together, overcoming cultural gaps, and building meaningful relationships. Qatar’s successful hosting of the World Cup 2022 has proven the point. This is very much in line with Thailand’s stance as an active promoter of peace and common prosperity.
On the matter of the escalating tensions in the region, Thailand is deeply concerned about the situation, which has severely affected the innocent civilian population on the ground. In solidarity with the international community, Thailand urges on all parties involved in the conflict to exercise utmost restraint, immediately cease all act of hostile actions, protect civilian infrastructure, and comply with international humanitarian law and the Charter of the United Nations.
Amidst the various challenges that demand global solutions, be it, geopolitical tensions and conflicts, climate change, and technological advancements, ACD leaders need to lead the way forward to offer the stability and growth the world needs. It is often said that the 21st century is the Asian Century. As home to about 60% of the world’s population, Asia is both global energy and food security centers – the “powerhouse” and “kitchen” of the world.
As far as Thailand is concerned, one of the country’s strengths is the food and agriculture sector. This is not only vital to the economy but also ensure that the country meets the growing global demand for food supplies. To address food security challenges, ACD nations should strengthen trade networks and align standards so to ensure that the global food supply chain remains strong and resilient. The geographical location of Thailand allows the country to be a natural gateway between the East and the West. Its infrastructure – whether it be expanding road networks, railways, ports, or airports – has been designed with this strategic vision in mind. The Prime Minister invites ACD partners to join Thailand in developing new trade corridors that will enhance connectivity and spur economic growth across the continent, and to continue to be part and parcel of the global economy.
According to the Prime Minister, the role of ACD is now more crucial than ever. Since its inception in 2002, ACD has been Asia’s first and only continental-wide framework that unites together all diverse sub-regions. Thailand seeks to carry forward this very same idea into its chairmanship next year. Thailand envisions the ACD as a “converging forum of Asia”. Thailand will work towards the revitalization of the activities under the 6 pillars of corporation. As a bridge builder, Thailand looks forward to working with all member states to be an active promoter of peace and common prosperity, and will work towards strategically aligning the ACD’s efforts with similar groupings and fora, such as ASEAN, GCC, BRICS, CICA, and SCO, to enhance collective impact on global economic stability and security.
The Prime Minister emphasized the need to ensure economic and financial stability. Painful experience from the 1997 Asian Financial Crisis makes ones believe in striking the “Balance of Financial Architecture”. To achieve this, Thailand sees the importance of revisiting the idea of a more balanced and resilient financial architecture, in support of the global agenda on Financing for Development.
In closing, the Prime Minister once again expressed appreciation to the State of Qatar for hosting this Summit, and to the Islamic Republic of Iran for its important leadership during this year’s chairmanship. She also congratulated His Excellency Mr. Nasser Raden Thamer Al-Mutairi on his appointment as the new Secretary General of the ACD. Success of the 3rd ACD Summit reaffirms many things. It demonstrates mutual commitment to collaboration over competition and conflict. It is from these commitments that has spurred economic growth and lifted millions out of poverty, the ability that ushered in the resilient recovery.
And it is with such spirit of cooperation and collaboration that Thailand sets forth next year with its chairmanship. It is the country’s fervent determination to continue to forge stronger partnerships, with a sustained commitment to advancing the ACD’s agenda for a more resilient and more prosperous Asia. To prove that this is indeed the Asian Century, with ACD as the preeminent “Forum of Asia”, together driving forward ACD agenda – Asia’s agenda.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/88720