รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM to meet with executives of world’s leading firms during attendance at Davos 2024


วันจันทร์ที่ 15 มกราคม 2567
15/01/2567
พิมพ์
PM to meet with executives of world’s leading firms during attendance at Davos 2024
PM to meet with executives of world’s leading firms during attendance at Davos 2024
Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin is scheduled to meet with executives of world’s leading firms during his attendance at the World Economic Forum (WEF) Annual Meeting 2024 (Davos 2024), held in Davos, Switzerland during January 15-19, 2024. The Prime Minister’s meetings with these people are expected to bring about great economic benefits to Thailand through trade and investment in the country’s potential fields. World’s leading firms the Prime Minister is scheduled to meet with are for example:
DKSH: A Swiss holding company specializing in market expansion services (sourcing, market insights, marketing and sales, distribution and logistics, and after-sales services.) DKSH Thailand is one of the largest organizations in the country in terms of sales, and the largest country operation of the DKSH Group.
Dubai Port World: A multinational logistics company based in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, specializing in cargo logistics, port terminal operations, maritime services and free trade zones.
Formed in 2005, DP World handles 70 million containers that are brought in by around 70,000 vessels annually. This equates to roughly 10% of global container traffic accounted for by their 82 marine and inland terminals present in over 40 countries.
Standard Chartered: A British multinational bank with operations in consumer, corporate and institutional banking, and treasury services. The bank integrates sustainability into the organizational decision-making by focusing on three sustainability pillars – Sustainable Finance, Responsible Company and Inclusive Communities. Its sustainability philosophy is in line with the Thai Government’s policy.
Telenor: A Norwegian majority state-owned multinational telecommunications company that owns networks in 8 countries with approx. 175 million customers throughout Scandinavia and Asia.
Coca Cola: The world’s largest drink industry company which offers more than 200 brands of dinking products. Coca Cola Thailand was founded in 1990, and was granted investment promotion by the BOI to establish its regional headquarters in 2010.
Nestlé: A Swiss multinational food and drink processing corporation of which the products are available in 190 countries across the globe. Nestlé has 344 factories in 77 countries, including Thailand. Its strategy: “Good for You” and “Good for the Planet” is in line with the Thai Government’s policy on healthcare promotion and environment protection.
Grab: A developer of a super-app for ride-hailing, food delivery and digital payments services on mobile devices, linking consumers from all walks of life in 500 cities and 8 countries.
Robert Bosch: A German multinational engineering and technology company, with its core operating areas spreading across four business sectors: mobility (hardware and software), consumer goods (including household appliances and power tools), industrial technology (including drive and control) and energy and building technology. Bosch has a complex network of over 468 subsidiaries and regional entities in over 60 countries worldwide. It was granted investment promotion by the BOI in 2014 for 24 projects, worth total 6.3 billion Baht (€165 million).

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/77449