รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on April 1, 2025. 


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 17 เมษายน 2568
17/04/2568
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on April 1, 2025.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on Revocation of Public Domain Land for People’s Common Use in the area of ​​Phra Yuen Subdistrict, Phra Yuen District, Khon Kaen Province, B.E. ...
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Royal Decree on Revocation of Public Domain Land for People’s Common Use in the area of Phra Yuen Subdistrict, Phra Yuen District, Khon Kaen Province, B.E. ..., which was proposed by Ministry of Interior and scrutinized by Office of Council of State. Opinions of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment shall also be taken into consideration.
Gist
The draft Royal Decree on Revocation of Public Domain Land for People’s Common Use in the area of Phra Yuen Subdistrict, Phra Yuen District, Khon Kaen Province, B.E. .... prescribes revocation of “Community vocational training center” in Phra Yuen Subdistrict, Phra Yuen District, Khon Kaen Province (1 rai 27 square wah), which is discontinued utilizing. The land is to be used for the construction of Phrayuen Municipality Child Development and Daycare Center.
Title: Draft Royal Decree on exemption of toll fee for Motorway No. 7 and No. 9 for a specified period (No. …) B.E. … (During 2025 Songkran Holiday)
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Royal Decree on exemption of toll fee for Motorway No. 7 and No. 9 for a specified period (No. …) B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Transport.
Gist
The draft Royal Decree prescribes exemption of toll fee for Motorway No. 7 (Bangkok-Ban Chang), and No. 9 (Kanchanaphisek Rd.: - Bang Phli - Phra Pradaeng) from 0001hrs of April 11, 2025 to 2400hrs of April 17, 2025. This is to facilitate people’s traveling during the long holidays.
Title: Withdrawal of draft Act on Establishment of Labor Court and Labour Court Procedure (No. …) B.E. .... and draft Acts on Establishment of Samut Prakan Labor Court and Rayong Labor Court, B.E. ....
The cabinet approved the withdrawal of draft Act on Establishment of Labor Court and Labour Court Procedure (No. …) B.E. .... and draft Acts on Establishment of Samut Prakan Labor Court and Rayong Labor Court, B.E. ...., as proposed by Office of the Court of Justice.
Gist
The draft Act on Establishment of Labor Court and Labour Court Procedure (No. …) B.E. .... and draft Acts on Establishment of Samut Prakan Labor Court and Rayong Labor Court, B.E. ...., were approved by the cabinet on June 25, 2024, and sent to Office of Council of State for deliberations. The Office of Council of State is of the opinion that the draft bills are not in accordance with Section 77 of the Constitution of Thailand which prescribes that “The State should introduce laws only to the extent of necessity, and repeal or revise laws that are no longer necessary or unsuitable to the circumstances, or are obstacles to livelihoods or engagement in occupations, without delay, so as to abstain from the imposition of burdens upon the public”.
It is, therefore, appropriate for the Office of the Court of Justice to consider solving the problem regarding insufficient number of judges per an increasing number of cases by reorganizing regional labor court provinces or establishing additional regional labor courts, which can be done through issuance of royal decrees.
Title: Designation of National Orchid Day
The cabinet approved designation of January 18 of each year as National Orchid Day (not a holiday), as proposed by Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives.
Gist
Thailand has been world's number 1 producer and exporter of tropical orchids for more than 50 years. In 2023, the orchid cultivation area totaled 17,183 rai. Important cultivation areas include Nakhon Pathom, Samut Sakhon, and Ratchaburi. The country has been named a “Land of Orchid”.
Designation of January 18 of each year as National Orchid Day (not a holiday) aims to create public awareness on the value of orchids as national identity and image, and to remember Marshal-Admiral Paribatra Sukhumbandhu, Prince of Nakhon Sawan, who has been titled “Father of Thai Orchids” and who passed away on January 18, 1944.
Title: Draft Ministerial Announcement on Exemption of Toll Fee for Burapha Withi Expressway, Kanchanaphisek (Bang Phli-Suk Sawat) Expressway, and Chalong Rat Expressway During Songkran Holiday of 2025
The cabinet acknowledged the draft Ministerial Announcement on Exemption of Toll Fee for Burapha Withi Expressway, Kanchanaphisek (Bang Phli-Suk Sawat) Expressway, and Chalong Rat Expressway During Songkran Holiday of 2025, as proposed by Ministry of Transport.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation prescribes exemption of toll fee for Burapha Withi Expressway, Kanchanaphisek (Bang Phli-Suk Sawat) Expressway, and Chalong Rat Expressway from 0001hrs of April 11, 2025 to 2400hrs of April 17, 2024. This is to facilitate people’s traveling during the long holidays.
Title: Measure on subsidy of people’s energy cost burden
The cabinet acknowledges a measure on subsidy of people’s energy cost burden through reduction of electricity rate during May and August 2025 to not exceeding 3.99 Baht/unit, as proposed by Ministry of Energy.
Title: Memorandum between the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the establishment of a Joint Thai - Belarusian Committee on Trade and Economic Cooperation
The cabinet approved the draft Memorandum between the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the establishment of a Joint Thai - Belarusian Committee on Trade and Economic Cooperation. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Commerce may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Commerce or a representative is authorized as signatory of the Memorandum. This is as proposed by Ministry of Commerce.
Gist
The draft Memorandum between the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the establishment of a Joint Thai - Belarusian Committee on Trade and Economic Cooperation demonstrates intention of both parties to establish a joint committee to promote and coordinate trade and economic cooperation. The composition of the joint committee shall consist of equally assigned representatives from each party.
The signing of the draft memorandum will help promote economic, trade and investment relations between Thailand and Belarus, especially in areas where both sides have potential and are mutually beneficial. The memorandum is also aimed at resolving trade issues and obstacles.
Title: Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in Digital Technology between the Ministry of Digital Economy and Society and the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Government of the Republic of India
The cabinet approved the draft Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in Digital Technology between the Ministry of Digital Economy and Society and the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Government of the Republic of India, and authorized Minister of Digital Economy and Society or a representative as signatory for the Thai side of the MoU.
Gist
The draft Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in Digital Technology between the Ministry of Digital Economy and Society and the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Government of the Republic of India is aimed at promoting cooperation between the Kingdom of Thailand and the Republic of India in the field of digital technology through joint activities, exchange of knowledge, technical expertise, and best practices, and training and seminars in the topic related to comprehensive development of digital technology, which will lead to stable and secure growth of the digital economy and society of both countries.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/95482