รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM delivers opening address at opening of 81st Session of the UNESCAP


วันอังคารที่ 22 เมษายน 2568
22/04/2568
พิมพ์
PM delivers opening address at opening of 81st Session of the UNESCAP
PM delivers opening address at opening of 81st Session of the UNESCAP
April 21, 2025, at 0900hrs, at the ESCAP Hall, United Nations Conference Center, Bangkok, Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed that Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra attended and delivered a keynote address at the opening of the 81st Session of the UNESCAP. Gist of the Prime Minister’s opening address is as follows:
The Prime Minister took this opportunity to warmly welcome all participants to Bangkok, and expressed heartfelt condolences to, and solidarity with, the people of Myanmar following the devastating earthquake last month. As a close neighbor of Myanmar, Thailand has promptly provided humanitarian support to relieve the plight of the affected population, and stands ready to do more. The Prime Minister also expressed appreciation for the warm words of support from across the world for Thailand’s early recovery from the tragic situation.
She emphasized that the meeting was held amidst numerous global challenges that cut across boundaries and regions — from natural disasters to geopolitical tensions; from economic volatilities to climate change; and from environmental degradation to transnational crimes. These issues affect global peace, stability and security, as well as international and regional developments. Solving these issues and addressing these disruptions requires strengthening of cooperation at all levels and good leadership. Especially in these trying times, these must be based on forward-looking policies grounded in international laws and norms that enhance resilience and lead to inclusive and sustainable development. As such, multilateral platforms such as the United Nations, ESCAP, ASEAN, ACMECS, BIMSTEC, and ACD, as well as multilateral agreements, are more crucial than ever in the collective pursuit of these goals. It is a matter of great concern that the Asia-Pacific region, while contributing to more than half of the global growth, is witnessing widening inequalities across the region. Poverty is also increasing.
According to the Prime Minister, in 2024, over 84% of the SDG targets showed limited progress or even signs of reversal. This alarming statistic calls for renewed efforts and innovative solutions towards achieving the SDGs and sustainable development in the region. In Thailand, the Sufficiency Economy Philosophy, the country’s locally-driven approach rooted in people-centered and planet-centric development, has been its guiding principle for the development of the country and SDG attainment. Thailand has shared, and will continue to share, this development approach and good practices with all interested partners.
Thailand aspires to be a regional development partner and an engine for sustainable growth across Asia and the Pacific. To achieve this, 3 following strategic priorities will be driven forward:
First is to be the “Kitchen of the World”. Thailand is committed to ensuring food security through agricultural transformation using innovation, technology, and precision farming. The aim is not only to feed people and improve livelihoods, but also to contribute to strong and inclusive regional food systems.
Second is to develop a “Creative Economy”. With the country’s rich cultural heritage and assets or “soft power”, Thailand is developing a people-centered economic model through cultural industries, design innovation, and wellness tourism. ‘De-stress destinations’ and community-based tourism are just some of the means the Thai Government has devised to generate jobs and support balanced development beyond major cities.
Third is to build advanced and sustainable industries through “green transition”. Thailand has adopted policies towards green and digital transitions. Through its Bio-Circular-Green (BCG) Economy Model, Thailand is pursuing this goal by promoting low-carbon and eco-friendly solutions with the aim to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050 and net-zero emissions by 2065.
By the year 2050, nearly 70% of the world’s population would live in cities. Urbanization is not only about the safety and well-being of the people; but is also about shaping a resilient future. Disaster risk reduction must therefore be integrated into urban planning. Resilient cities must be equipped to withstand various risks and threats, and must have infrastructure that can respond to natural disasters and the impacts of climate change. At the same time, cities must also be safe. Habitants must be safeguarded against transnational crimes, such as drug and human trafficking, and cybercrime, requiring enhancing law enforcement and increasing digital access and literacy for all. Thailand is committed to fostering cities that are resilient — where innovation and inclusion go hand-in-hand. Towards this end, the Thai government has initiated projects such as the 20 baht, or about 0.60 US dollar, flat fare for all of Bangkok’s urban rail transit network, to reduce economic disparity, transportation costs, and connectivity.
In closing, the Prime Minister proposed a few more points: First, regional cooperation must proceed in tandem with national action. Second, public-private partnerships and multi-stakeholder collaboration are important to driving sustainable and inclusive growth. Third, ESCAP plays a vital role as a regional platform for sharing knowledge, aligning strategies, and forging regional cooperation to accelerate inclusive development.
Along these lines, Thailand affirms its readiness to collaborate with ESCAP and member states to drive forward a more prosperous, resilient, and sustainable Asia-Pacific for present and future generations.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/95583