รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand-Malaysia to work together under ASEAN framework to identify resolutions for US reciprocal trades and tariff policy


วันศุกร์ที่ 18 เมษายน 2568
18/04/2568
พิมพ์
Thailand-Malaysia to work together under ASEAN framework to identify resolutions for US reciprocal trades and tariff policy
Thailand-Malaysia to work together under ASEAN framework to identify resolutions for US reciprocal trades and tariff policy
April 17, 2025, at 1400hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra welcomed Dato’ Seri Anwar Ibrahim, Prime Minister of Malaysia on occasion of the latter’s working visit to Thailand. Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
Both the Prime Ministers were pleased with longstanding relations and cooperation between the two countries, and congratulated the signing of an agreement on construction of parallel bridges across the Kolok River which will enhance cross-border transport efficiency and boost border economy and trade at the Thai Malaysian border area.
The Prime Minister thanked the Malaysian counterpart for his concern over the earthquake incident, and commended Malaysia for providing prompt humanitarian assistance to Myanmar. Thailand and Malaysia came to terms to help Myanmar in the disaster management and related humanitarian assistance, as both countries believe that engagement of all concerned parties would lead to Myanmar’s positive development in accordance with ASEAN’s Five-Point Consensus (5PC).
With regard to issues related to the Southern border provinces, the two leaders agreed on ending violence acts, and initiating pre-talks between Thailand’s high-level authorities and the dissidents. The Prime Minister reaffirmed the country’s commitment to pushing forward the peace talk process, and hoped for Malaysia, with its leading role in the OIC, to help with the drafting of conflict resolution proposal before submitting to the OIC in a bid to ensure common understanding on the matter at the international arena. Malaysia also affirmed its stance against wrongdoers using Malaysia as shelter, and is ready to cooperate with Thailand’s justice process.
On this occasion, the Thai and Malaysian Prime Ministers also exchanged views on US reciprocal trades and tariff policy, with both sides agreeing on the need for action and regional cooperation. The two leaders expressed hope that ASEAN member states work together under the ASEAN framework to identify resolutions that benefit all sides.
After the meeting, the Prime Ministers of Thailand and Malaysia witnessed the exchange of agreements on the construction of a parallel bridge across the Golok River, connecting Su-ngai Kolok District in Narathiwat Province and Rantau Panjang, Kelantan, Malaysia. The Thai side was represented by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Transport Suriya Jungrungreangkit, and the Malaysian side, Dato Sri Alexander Nanta Linggi, Minister of Public Works of Malaysia.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/95512