รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Press Statement by Her Excellency Ms. Paetongtarn Shinawatra, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand on the occasion of the Official Visit to the Kingdom of Cambodia 


วันพุธที่ 23 เมษายน 2568
Press Statement by Her Excellency Ms. Paetongtarn Shinawatra, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand on the occasion of the Official Visit to the Kingdom of Cambodia
on 23 April 2025 at 11.50 hrs.
at the Malis Room, 2nd Floor, Peace Palace, Phnom Penh
Prime Minister,
Members of the media,
It is a great honour for me to make this official visit to Cambodia, especially as this year marks the 75th anniversary of our diplomatic relations. I am also delighted to launch together with Prime Minister, the official anniversary logo a moment ago.
Earlier, Prime Minister Hun Manet and I had a friendly and productive discussion. We share a strong commitment to deepen our cooperation based on mutual trust, mutual respect, and mutual benefit.
In addition to Prime Minister’s remarks, I would like to highlight the followings:
First, we reaffirmed our Strategic Partnership and are pleased that a Joint Action Plan is being finalized to make sure that this partnership delivers tangible benefits for our peoples.
We welcomed the opening of the Thai Consulate General in Siem Reap and the upcoming Cambodian Consulate General in Songkhla.
Second, we will strengthen our security partnership. We agreed to promote closer military cooperation at all levels to maintain peace and stability along our common border.
I thanked Prime Minister Hun Manet for the strong partnership between our police forces in fighting online scams and we will continue to cooperate to eradicate these criminal networks from the Thai - Cambodian border areas.
The signing of the MoU on Transboundary Environmental Pollution will strengthen our cooperation against PM2.5 pollution, through exchange of information and capacity building.
Third, we are committed to speeding up the development of border areas. Thailand is ready to host the Joint Cabinet Retreat at the border area, in conjunction with the official opening of the first Thailand - Cambodia Friendship bridge.
Our two countries will speed up demining efforts along the border, and promote cooperation between border special economic zones on both sides.
We will also work to conclude the Bilateral Road Transport Agreement to allow private vehicles to cross the border, and develop a cross-border rail freight service to reduce logistics costs and increase efficiency, thereby strengthening connectivity between our two countries and beyond.
Fourth, we will deepen economic cooperation and aim to increase our trade from 10 billion US dollars to reach 15 billion US dollars by 2027.
I thanked Prime Minister Hun Manet for his continued support for Thai investors, currently the 9th largest source of FDIs in Cambodia.
Moreover, we agreed to coordinate within ASEAN to deepen regional economic integration as well as closer economic links within the Mekong Subregion.
Fifth, we will strengthen tourism cooperation and advance the “Six Countries, One Destination” initiative, as well as update the Border Crossing Agreement to facilitate border crossings for tourism purpose.
Sixth, we will make sure that Cambodian workers are recruited through legal channels in order to have access to appropriate welfare and benefits.
Finally, we will continue to strengthen people-to-people friendship and understanding, especially between our youths.
Today, we have also signed a document to establish a labour skills development center at Poun Phnom. And apart from this, there will be many more activities to celebrate the 75th anniversary of our ties throughout this year, highlighting various aspects of our long-standing friendship.
Thank you.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/95659