รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with President of Inter-Parliament Union


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 14 กันยายน 2566
14/09/2566
พิมพ์
PM meets with President of Inter-Parliament Union
PM meets with President of Inter-Parliament Union
September 13, 2023, at 1530hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Hon. Mr. Duarte Pacheco, President of the Inter-Parliament Union (IPU), paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin on occasion of his official visit as guest of the Thai Parliament. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed IPU president on his first official visit to Thailand, and thanked him for supporting activities provided to the Thai Parliament throughout his tenure. At present, political landscape is fast changing, and has become a global challenge. The Thai Government hopes to strengthen further cooperation with IPU, and takes on constructive role in confronting challenges and addressing the problem in a sustainable manner.
The IPU president congratulated the Prime Minister’s assumption of the position, and expressed confidence that with his long experiences, the Prime Minister and the Thai Government would be able to overcome challenges and successfully undertake state administration duty. IPU is the oldest global organization of national parliaments, and is recognized by the United Nations. It was established in 1889 as the Inter-Parliamentary Congress with an aim to promoting parliamentary diplomacy and dialogue on global issues of common interest. Thailand has been an active member of IPU.
President of the Bureau of Women Parliamentarians and member of IPU Executive Board Cynthia Lopez Castro also commended Thailand for exemplifying promotion of women and younger generation parliamentarians’ role and their political participation, as the country has the highest number of women politicians in Asia.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/72191