รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM briefs media on cabinet resolutions


วันพุธที่ 13 กันยายน 2566
​PM briefs media on cabinet resolutions
​PM briefs media on cabinet resolutions
September 13, 2023, at 12.00 hrs, at the Command Building I, Government House, following the weekly cabinet meeting, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin briefed the press on some of the cabinet resolutions.
The cabinet has made approval to an establishment of the organizing committee for the royal ceremony to commemorate auspicious occasion of His Majesty the King's 6th Cycle Royal Birthday Anniversary next year.
With regard to the Constitution amendment, Deputy Prime Minister Phumtham Wechayachai has been assigned by the cabinet to set up a committee for possible referendum arrangement in line with guideline of the Constitutional Court. Detail on the constitution amendment and arrangement of the referendum will be deliberated through parliamentary debate to promote public participation and ensure common agreement.
According to the Prime Minister, temporary exemption of visa for entering into the Kingdom has been approved for the citizens of People’s Republic of China and Kazakhstan. Visa exemption period is set from September 25, 2023 to February 29, 2024.
The decision has been made following thorough discussion between the Government and concerned agencies (Tourism Authority of Thailand, law enforcement agencies, and Airports of Thailand).
The cabinet approved an establishment of the National Committee for Soft Power Strategy, and a 3-year debt moratorium for farmers and SMEs. It also gave a nod to a semi-monthly payroll of the government officials, on which the detail will be further announced. The semi-monthly payroll will be implemented with an aim to alleviate plights of low-ranking officials who struggle to make ends meet (and opt for loans) while waiting for their salary payment at the end of each month. The semi-monthly payroll of the government officials is expected to take effect from January 1, 2024 onward.
The cabinet also approved reduction of electricity tariff from 4.45 Baht to 4.10 Baht per kilowatt-hour, starting this September. Domestic diesel prices will also be cut to lower than 30 Baht per liter from September 20 onward, whereas reduction of benzene price will later be discussed and deliberated.
With regard to a Move Forward Party MP Rangsiman Rome’s allegation of a senator being a mafia/influential person, the Prime Minister stated that all evidences should be submitted to law enforcement agencies. He also affirmed his intolerance against abuse of power. The currently famous case concerning a senior policeman being gunned down by a Nakhon Pathom’s sub-district chief’s henchman will be investigated and interrogated in a just and fair manner.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/72184