รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Thailand – Japan to continue tightening economic and investment cooperation


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 14 กันยายน 2566
​Thailand – Japan to continue tightening economic and investment cooperation
​Thailand – Japan to continue tightening economic and investment cooperation
September 13, 2023, at 16.00 hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Nashida Kazuya, Ambassador of Japan to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure to meet with the Ambassador, and conveyed his appreciation toward Prime Minister Kishida Fumio for sending him a congratulatory message on occasion of his assumption of the position. He hoped to meet with the Japanese Prime Minister at the 78th session of the UN General Assembly (UNGA 78), to be held in the U.S. next week.
The Prime Minister commended long-standing bilateral relations between Thailand and Japan with close cooperation at all levels, especially between the royal families of the two countries. He also mentioned the Government’s plan to organize the royal ceremony to commemorate auspicious occasion of His Majesty the King's 6th Cycle Royal Birthday Anniversary next year.
The Prime Minister also affirmed the Thai Government’s commitment to work closely with the Japanese Ambassador in promoting relations and cooperation in all dimensions, and hoped that more high-level meetings be held for mutual interest. He also revealed his intention to pay an official visit to Japan to discuss further cooperation with the Japanese Prime Minister at the convenient opportunity of both sides.
The Japanese Ambassador congratulated the Prime Minister on his assumption of premiership. Today would be a good opportunity to discuss cooperation between Thailand and Japan, as the two countries have been forging close relations and cooperation in all dimensions and at all levels, especially economic cooperation. Japan stands ready to leverage Comprehensive Strategic Partnership (CSP), agreed upon and announced in 2022 to commemorate the 135th anniversary of diplomatic relations, and continue to reinforce cooperation in green industry, agriculture, investment in infrastructure, seaport and airport development, and human resource development.
Both parties also discussed promotion of economic cooperation. The Prime Minister emphasized the importance of Japanese investors’ role in the nation’s economic development, and would be pleased to enhance ease of doing business for Japanese investors to invest in the country in the areas of their expertise. According to the Ambassador, Japanese investment in Thailand accounts for more than 40% of total foreign investment. He, therefore, hoped to tighten economic cooperation, especially through meetings between the Thai leader and Japanese private sector. This year also marks the 50th anniversary of ASEAN – Japan relations. As Thailand is the Country Coordinator for ASEAN – Japan Dialogue Relations, the Ambassador extended an invitation to the Prime Minister to attend the ASEAN – Japan Commemorative Summit, to be held in Tokyo this December. The Prime Minister agreed to look into the possibility of attending the meeting.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/72198