รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM supports leveraging of FTA in promoting export of Pattani’s provincial-star products


วันอังคารที่ 13 มิถุนายน 2566
13/06/2566
พิมพ์
PM supports leveraging of FTA in promoting export of Pattani’s provincial-star products
PM supports leveraging of FTA in promoting export of Pattani’s provincial-star products
June 13, 2023, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha was reported on the implementation of Ministry of Commerce’s Department of Trade Negotiations (DTN) to promote Pattani’s provincial-star products.
DTN has collaborated with partner agencies to organize a seminar on “Networking of Four Southern Border Provinces Toward ASEAN FTA” on June 1, 2023 in Pattani province. The seminar focused on the topics of FTA, trade rules and regulations, marketing strategies, and foreign market trends, and was participated by over 150 OTOP/ community enterprise entrepreneurs and farmers. Participants were also briefed on product development to meet market and consumer needs, and the importance of sustainability and environmental awareness. Local products, such as batiks, fish chips, velvet tamarind, honey, and ginger powder, were also displayed and sold at the event.
According to Pattani’s 2022 export statistics, key exported products include:
Fresh, chilled, frozen, steamed or boiled crabs and canned crabs, worth US$46 million. Major export markets are China, Australia, and South Korea
Fish chips and flavored fish, worth US$103 million. Major export markets are China, Australia, and Cambodia
Dried salted or smoked fish, worth US$52.34 million. Major export markets are Japan, Sri Lanka, and the U.S.
Batiks, worth US$0.71 million. Major export markets are India, Pakistan, and Vietnam
The Government Spokesperson emphasized the Prime Minister’s support for concerned agencies to leverage FTA in promoting an export of Pattani’s provincial-star products, which would help minimize trade barriers and set an example for other provinces to promote and develop their OTOP/GI products for export.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/69213