รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Safety measures put in place for Countdown night


วันศุกร์ที่ 3 มกราคม 2568
03/01/2568
พิมพ์
​Safety measures put in place for Countdown night
​Safety measures put in place for Countdown night
December 31, 2024, Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed that Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra was reported by commissioner-general of the Royal Thai Police (RTP) Pol General Kitrat Phanphet on safety preparation for the public and tourists at major countdown venues across the country.
According to the report, in Bangkok, the Metropolitan Police Bureau has joined forces with the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration and the Department of Disaster Prevention and Mitigation, Ministry of Interior, and all fire stations, as well as public health officers, rescue foundations and volunteers, to facilitate and maintain safety in areas with a large number of tourists. Police patrol cars will standby at various tourist spots with their sirens on to be easily visible to tourists from 1830hrs onwards. Both uniformed and plainclothes foot patrols will be dispatched, and all relevant agencies are instructed to standby throughout the night. Assembly points will also be set for each countdown venue.
The Royal Thai Police has also ordered the Provincial Police Regions 1-9 and provincial police divisions to follow suit with the top priority being public safety. Security measures will be beefed up, especially on drunk driving, brawls, and weapon carrying, to ensure uneventful countdown toward the year 2025.
The Government Spokesperson also disclosed location for New Year celebrations in provinces across the country, i.e., Chiang Mai, Chiang Rai, Nan, Phitsanulok, Phetchabun, and Tak in the North; Phuket, Surat Thani, Songkhla, and Satun in the South; Nakhon Phanom and Roi Et in the Northeast.
There are several celebrations and countdown venues in Bangkok, and not to be missed is the “Amazing Thailand Countdown 2025” which is held on December 31 – January 1, 2024 at Nagaraphirom Park, located behind the Grand Palace between Tha Tian and Tha Chang Wang Luang Pier. The public can look forward to a spectacular fireworks display with Phra Prang of Wat Arun Ratchawararam Ratchaworamahawihan as a backdrop, as well as a drone display, and musical performances by leading artists. There will also be an alms-giving activity in the morning of January 1, 2025.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Prime Minister thanked all concerned authorities and volunteers who have been working hard to take care of the public and ensure public safety throughout the joyful week.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/91972