รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on September 18, 2023.


วันอังคารที่ 3 ตุลาคม 2566
The cabinet met on September 18, 2023.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Political Declarations of the United Nations General Assembly High-level Meeting on Health
The cabinet approved the following proposals made by Ministry of Public Health:
Approved: 1) draft Political Declaration of the United Nations General Assembly High-level Meeting on Pandemic Prevention, Preparedness and Response; 2) Political Declaration of the High-level Meeting on Universal Health Coverage; and 3) Political Declaration on the High-Level Meeting on the Fight Against Tuberculosis
Authorized head of the Thai delegation to UNGA78 or a representative to adopt the 3 Political Declarations
Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Public Health and Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
The three Political Declarations will be adopted at the United Nations General Assembly High-level Meetings during September 20-22, 2023 at the UN Headquarters in New York City, U.S.A.
Title: Outcome documents to be adopted at the 16th meeting of ASEAN Ministers Responsible for Information (AMRI)
The cabinet approved the following outcome documents to be adopted at the 16th meeting of ASEAN Ministers Responsible for Information (AMRI), as proposed by the Department of Public Relations, Prime Minister’s Office:
Draft Plan of Action of ASEAN Task Force on Fake News
Draft Vision Statement by AMRI - ASEAN 2030: Toward a Transformative, Responsive and Resilient Information and Media Sector
Draft Joint Media Statement: 16th Conference of the ASEAN Ministers Responsible for Information & 7th Conference of the ASEAN Plus Three Ministers Responsible for Information
Draft Danang Declaration on “Media: From Information to Knowledge for a Resilient and Responsive ASEAN”
Draft Guideline on Management of Government Information in Combating Fake News and Disinformation in the Media
The cabinet also authorized Minister Attached to Prime Minister’s Office, in her capacity as Thai Minister Responsible for Information, to adopt the 5 outcome documents. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Department of Public Relations may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
The 16th Conference of the ASEAN Ministers Responsible for Information and related meetings will be held during September 21-23, 2023 in Danang, Socialist Republic of Vietnam.
Title: 18th Asia Cooperation Dialogue (ACD) Ministerial Meeting
The cabinet approved Bahrain Declaration, which is the outcome document of the 18th Asia Cooperation Dialogue (ACD) Ministerial Meeting. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Foreign Affairs or a representative is authorized to adopt the Declaration. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
The Bahrain Declaration demonstrates political will of ACD member states to promote comprehensive and sustainable growth through exchange of practices and experiences. Under the Declaration, ‘one health approach’ is highlighted to achieve public health goals. The Bahrain Declaration also underscores post-COVID-19 sustainable economic recovery through upgrade of cooperation in trade, logistics and digital connectivity, tourism, science, technology and innovation, and SMEs promotion.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/72874