รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM follows up on transport infrastructure development projects in Phuket and Andaman coastal provinces


วันอังคารที่ 3 ตุลาคม 2566
03/10/2566
พิมพ์
PM follows up on transport infrastructure development projects in Phuket and Andaman coastal provinces
PM follows up on transport infrastructure development projects in Phuket and Andaman coastal provinces
September 29, 2023, at 1250hrs, at Phuket International Airport, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin, together with Minister of Transport Suriya Jungrungreangkit, Minister of Tourism and Sports Sudawan Wangsupakitkosol, and the delegation, took a field trip to Phuket to follow up on transport infrastructure development projects as part of the Government’s urgent policy to promote tourism along the Andaman Coast (Phuket and Phang-Nga provinces), and to generate more revenues from tourism activities. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed that the Prime Minister was briefed on the project progress, gist of which is as follows:
Airport construction and development projects along the Andaman Coast comprise: 1) Phuket International Airport Development Project (Phase 2), with the investment budget of 5.8 billion Baht; 2) Krabi International Airport Development Project, with the investment budget of 2.7 billion Baht; and 3) Phang Nga Airport Development Project (aka. Andaman International Airport) in Khok Kloi Subdistrict, Takua Thung District, Phang Nga Province, with the investment budget of 80 billion Baht.
Land transport development projects in Phuket include:
1) Phuket Expressway, under the responsibility of the Expressway Authority of Thailand (EXAT). The project is implemented in 2 phases: Phase 1, Kathu - Patong section, with the distance of 3.98 km., and Phase 2, Muang Mai - Koh Kaew - Kathu section, with the distance of 30.26 km.
2) Phuket Highway Network Development Projects, under the responsibility of Ministry of Transport’s Department of Highways. Projects to be implemented in the fiscal year 2024 are: (1) 4-lane expansion of Highway 4207 (4.55 km.); (2) new 4-lane highway construction (Highway 4207, with the distance of 1.95 kilometers); and (3) interchange construction project at the intersection of Highway 402 and Highway 4207 (Tha Rua Underpass) at km. 34+680
After listening to the briefing, the Prime Minister thanked all concerned sectors for various inputs on the development of tourism and national economic recovery. Phuket’s high potential economic stimulus schemes could be a model for other provinces and provincial clusters. The province’s tourism promotion could also be expanded to cover nearby provinces and provincial cluster (Phuket, Krabi, and Phang-Nga). He also extended his well wishes to Phuket governor who was retiring, and commended Ministry of Transport for its efficient management and administration to leverage allocated budget according to the Government’s policy.
The Prime Minister emphasized that Phuket, as one of the world’s major cities, needs to be unceasingly developed. He called for concerned agencies to take good care of and ensure safety of the tourists, and for Airports of Thailand Public Company Limited (AOT)’s efficient private jet management to avoid impact on regular flights and passengers.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/72871