รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on November 1, 2022


วันจันทร์ที่ 7 พฤศจิกายน 2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on November 1, 2022
The cabinet met on November 1, 2022. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: U-Tapao International Airport’s 2nd Runway and Taxiway Construction Project
The cabinet acknowledged the Eastern Economic Corridor Policy Committee’s approval for the Royal Thai Navy to implement U-Tapao International Airport’s 2nd Runway and Taxiway Construction Project.
Gist
The project is aimed to increase U-Tapao Airport’s capacity, and is part of the Government’s U-Tapao International Airport and Eastern Aviation Hub development project. Construction budget framework of 17,768 million Baht has earlier been approved by the cabinet on October 20, 2019. The Royal Thai Navy has already been allocated with the multi-year budget (FY2019-2024) at the amount of 1,463.5955 million Baht, while Ministry of Finance is assigned to seek 16,210 million Baht in loan for the Royal Thai Navy’s implementation of the project.
Title: Measures to tackle drought during dry season 2022/2023
The cabinet approved measures for the dry season of 2022/2023 and water management capacity enhancement plan to address drought and alleviate people’s plight, as proposed by the National Water Resource Board (NWRB).
The plan prescribes 3 dimensions of implementation, consisting of 10 measures:
Supply: consisting of 3 measures
Accelerating water storage in all types of water sources
Acquiring and monitoring reserved water sources and preparing equipment in drought risk areas
Operating rainmaking and water filling for water sources in drought risk areas and underground water filling in potential areas
Demand: consisting of 4 measures
Managing water allocation and crop planting areas in the dry season to be in line with water supply, and controlling water usage of upper river basin area according to plan
Enhancing water usage efficiency in the agricultural sector through planning for planning dry season crops and applying technologies in water management
Preparing reserved water for lowland areas for cropping and aquaculture
Monitoring water quality in main rivers and tributaries and water sources that receive water from industrial and agricultural sectors, and from communities; preparing contingency plan
Management: consisting of 3 measures
Reinforcing water management in drought-risk communities by providing knowledge and understanding on water usage planning, reserved water preparation and water retention for consumption
Raising awareness of the water situation and water management plan for all sectors to cooperate in saving water in accordance with the plan
Monitoring and evaluating to ensure that performance is aligned with the plan
As for water management capacity enhancement plan, Office of National Water Resources will work together with other concerned agencies to prepare for drought and rainfall deficit in 2023. The operation includes repairing and improving hydraulic structures, tap water system, and groundwater wells, among others.
Title: Request for exemption from compliance with cabinet’s resolutions for construction of a road (Ban Khao Jeen- Ban Khok Phayom route) in Satun’s Muang district
The cabinet approved Ministry of Interior’s proposal on the exemption from compliance with cabinet’s resolutions for the construction of a road (Ban Khao Jeen- Ban Khok Phayom route) in the mangrove area of 11-2-40 rai in Satun’s Muang district (Khlong Khud subdistrict). The cabinet’s resolutions requested for exemption are:
Cabinet’s resolution on July 23, 1991 on “The report on current status of Thailand's mangrove forests and coral reefs”
Cabinet’s resolution on August 22, 2000 on “Resolution of National Forest Policy Committee on Resolving Mangrove Forest Management Problem”
Cabinet’s resolution on October 17, 2000 on “Resolution of National Forest Policy Committee on Resolving Mangrove Forest Management Problem”
Gist
According to Ministry of Interior, the construction of a road (Ban Khao Jeen- Ban Khok Phayom route) is very important to Satun’s development plan. The route will contribute to the province’s tourism development and empowerment of grassroots economy by creating income to the local people. Khlong Khud Municipality Office will be responsible for the reforestation under its budget of 3,095,865 Baht.
Title: Technical Assistance from U.S. Trade and Development Agency (USTDA) for Implementation of Thailand Integrated Logistics and Intermodal Transport Development Plan
The cabinet approved the draft MOU on Technical Assistance from U.S. Trade and Development Agency (USTDA) for Implementation of Thailand Integrated Logistics and Intermodal Transport Development Plan. Should there be an amendment, prior to the signing, in parts that are not gist, Ministry of Transport may proceed without having resubmitted to the cabinet. Minister of Transport or a representative is authorized as signatory of the MOU. This is as proposed by Ministry of Transport.
Gist
U.S. Trade and Development Agency (USTDA) agreed to provide technical assistance by way of the grant fund (USD1,360,740) to Office of Transport and Traffic Policy and Planning for the implementation of Thailand Integrated Logistics and Intermodal Transport Development Plan. Scope of work under the Plan includes: 1) reviewing the current situation of multimodal transport of each market segment; 2) forecasting transport and traffic volume; and 3) identifying necessary measures to promote shift of freight transport from road to rail. Implementation period of Thailand Integrated Logistics and Intermodal Transport Development Plan is 14 months.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/61316