รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on July 16, 2024


วันอังคารที่ 23 กรกฎาคม 2567
23/07/2567
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on July 16, 2024
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Request for exemption from complying with cabinet resolution regarding prohibition on use of mangrove forest areas to carry out onshore natural gas pipeline system project from Bang Pakong to South Bangkok Power Plant
The cabinet approved an exemption from complying with the cabinet resolution, dated December 15, 1987, July 23, 1991, August 22, 2000, and October 17, 2000, regarding prohibition on the use of mangrove forest areas in all cases. This is for PTT Plc. to be able to use the mangrove forest areas around Bang Pakong River (Bang Pakong and Tha Sa-an Subdistricts, Bang Pakong District, Chachoengsao Province), with the approximate area of 3 - 0 - 75 rai, for the implementation of its onshore natural gas pipeline system project from Bang Pakong to South Bangkok Power Plant. This is as proposed by Ministry of Energy.
Gist
The onshore natural gas pipeline system project from Bang Pakong to South Bangkok Power Plant is part of Thailand's electrical power development plan (2018 – 2037), first revision, which was acknowledged by the cabinet on June 22, 2021. Under the project, 36-inch pipes will be laid under high voltage power lines for a distance of approximately 57 kilometers. However, part of the route will pass through the mangrove forest areas around Bang Pakong River (Bang Pakong and Tha Sa-an Subdistricts, Bang Pakong District, Chachoengsao Province) (approximate area of 3 - 0 - 75 rai). Hence, the cabinet’s approval for an exemption from complying with the cabinet resolution, dated December 15, 1987, July 23, 1991, August 22, 2000, and October 17, 2000, regarding prohibition on the use of mangrove forest areas in all cases is needed.
Title: Revision to authorization for supervision of FY2025 integrated plans
The cabinet approved the revision to authorization for supervision of FY2025 integrated plans as proposed by the Budget Bureau.
Gist
To ensure efficient supervision and management of the FY2025 integrated budget for 10 integrated plans, revision to authorization for supervision of FY2025 integrated plans is approved to assign deputy prime ministers to supervise respective work plans and act as chairpersons of FY2025 integrated budget preparation committee. Detail is as follows:
Deputy Prime Minister Phumtham Wechayachai: 1) Integrated plan for the Eastern Econoic Corridor, and   2) Integrated water resource management plan
Deputy Prime Minister Suriya Juangroongruangkit: 1) Integrated plan for transportation and logistics systems development, and 2) Integrated plan for tourism income generation
Deputy Prime Minister Pichai Chunhavajira: 1) Digital government integration plan
Deputy Prime Minister Anutin Chanvirakul: 1) Integrated plan on solution to problems in the southern border provinces, and 2) Integrated plan on combating corruption and misconduct
Deputy Prime Minister Pol. Gen. Patcharawat Wongsuwan: 1) Aging society integrated plan
Deputy Prime Minister Pirapan Salirathavibhaga: 1) Integrated plan on illicit drug prevention and suppression, and 2) Integrated plan for development and management future industries
Title: Extension of FTA Fund
The cabinet approved extension of the FTA Fund implementation for another 20 years (July 20, 2024 – July 19 2044), as proposed by Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives.
Gist
On July 20, 2004, the cabinet approved an establishment of the FTA Fund to provide revolving capital to help farmers who have been affected by the FTAs in the agricultural sector. The implementation period was 20 years (2005 – 2024) and will end on July 19, 2027. However, the FTA Fund needs to be continued as it is the only source of funding for farmers who have been affected by the country’s FTAs. Most of these farmers are from the vulnerable groups and have yet an access to any other sources of funding for increasing agricultural product competitiveness. Request for an extension of the FTA Fund is, therefore, necessary.
Title: Draft Ministerial Declaration for 2024 High-Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Foreign Affairs:
Approved the draft Ministerial Declaration for 2024 High-Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed as appropriate without having to resubmit to the cabinet
Authorized Assistant to Minister of Foreign Affairs, as head of the Thai delegation, or Permanent Representative of Thailand to the United Nations in New York to adopt the draft Ministerial Declaration for 2024 High-Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development
Gist
United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) will hold its 2024 High-Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development (HLPF) under the theme: “Reinforcing the 2030 Agenda and eradicating poverty in times of multiple crises: the effective delivery of sustainable, resilient and innovative solutions” during July 8-18, 2024 at UN Headquarters in New York. The draft Ministerial Declaration for 2024 High-Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development will reflect political intent of member states at the ministerial level to work together to achieve the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (SDGs).
Title: Memorandum of Understanding on Trade Competition Regulation Cooperation Between Trade Competition Commission of Thailand and Philippine Competition Commission
The cabinet approved the following proposals of the Trade Competition Commission of Thailand (TCCT):
Approved the draft Memorandum of Understanding on Trade Competition Regulation Cooperation Between Trade Competition Commission of Thailand and Philippine Competition Commission. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist, TCCT may proceed as appropriate without having to resubmit to the cabinet
Authorized TCCT Secretary-General or a representative to sign the MOU (on July 23-24, 2024, in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia)
Gist
The draft Memorandum of Understanding on Trade Competition Regulation Cooperation Between Trade Competition Commission of Thailand and Philippine Competition Commission is aimed to promote effective enforcement of trade competition laws of each other’s country, and create a fair competitive environment for trade and investment in both countries.
Title: Draft 5-year action plan for water resources cooperation under the framework of Mekong - Lancang Cooperation (2023 - 2027)
The cabinet approved the following proposals of the Office of National Water Resources:
Approved the draft 5-year action plan for water resources cooperation under the framework of Mekong - Lancang Cooperation (2023 - 2027)
Authorized Secretary-General of the Office of National Water Resources or a representative to adopt the action plan
Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Office of National Water Resources may proceed as appropriate without having to resubmit to the cabinet
Gist
The draft action plan is a continuation of the original plan (2018 - 2022). Objectives and areas of cooperation remain the same with an addition of 3 points to make the action plan more up-to-date and appropriate. Additional points added to the new action plan are: (1) to take into account the challenges of climate change; (2) to include the issue of green and sustainable development; and (3) to prioritize the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development in a bid to enhance people's access to clean water, especially in the remote areas.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/86150