รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM concerned over flood-affected victims in Chiang Rai


วันพุธที่ 11 กันยายน 2567
11/09/2567
พิมพ์
PM concerned over flood-affected victims in Chiang Rai
PM concerned over flood-affected victims in Chiang Rai
September 11, 2024, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra has closely monitored and was reported on the flood situation in Chiang Rai’s Mae Sai district where there are already casualties. Concerned agencies and authorities have now rushed in assisting and providing relief to flood-affected victims.
The Prime Minister instructed them to work to the best of their ability taking into account safety of the people. She also conveyed her moral support to the affected victims. According to the Thai Meteorological Department, during September 13 – 17, people in Thailand should beware of heavy to very heavy rains and accumulations that may cause flash flood and overflows, especially along foothills near waterways and lowlands. The Prime Minister, therefore, urged residents in all areas to keep updated of the notifications and information provided by local governments and relevant agencies for timely preparation and response.
The Prime Minister added that as of now, she was not in a position to make any order as the Government’s policy statement has yet to be delivered to the Parliament. However, she has closely followed up with Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense Phumtham Wechayachai on the update of flood situation. Military units have already dispatched their personnel to assist the victims. Two shelters have been set up in Mae Sai district, as well as a makeshift kitchen which could produce 500-600 sets of food per meal. Jet skiers have been sent to evacuate people in the fast-flowing areas.
Other concerned authorities are also prepared to provide any help possible. Rehabilitation and remedy according to the regulations of the Prime Minister’s Office will be arranged in a comprehensive manner after flood situation subsides to alleviate people’s plights.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/87902