รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand – Lao PDR agree to intensify cooperation on cross-border crimes


วันจันทร์ที่ 24 กุมภาพันธ์ 2568
24/02/2568
พิมพ์
Thailand – Lao PDR agree to intensify cooperation on cross-border crimes
Thailand – Lao PDR agree to intensify cooperation on cross-border crimes
Thailand – Lao PDR agree to intensify cooperation on cross-border crimes
February 20, 2025, at 1145hrs, at the Inner Santi Maitri Building, Government House, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra and Lao Prime Minister Sonexay Siphandone witnessed the signing of 4 agreements and MoUs:
1. Plan of Action For 2025 – 2027 To Implement The Memorandum of Understanding on Justice And Legal Affairs Cooperation Between The Ministry of Justice of The Lao People’s Democratic Republic And The Ministry of Justice of The Kingdom of Thailand
2. Technical Arrangement on Rail Passenger Transportation between the State Railway of Thailand and the Lao National Railway State Enterprise
3. Memorandum of Understanding on Academic Cooperation between Mae Fah Luang University of the Kingdom of Thailand and Souphanouvong University of The Lao People's Democratic Republic
4. Memorandum Of Understanding Between The Joint Standing Committee On Commerce, Industry And Banking Of Thailand (Jsccib) And Lao National Chamber Of Commerce And Industry (Lncci)
Both leaders also witnessed the launching of commemorative logo to celebrate the 75th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Thailand and the Lao PDR, and held a joint press conference, of which Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed gist as follows:
The Prime Minister, on behalf of the Thai Government and people, expressed pleasure to welcome the Prime Minister of the Lao PDR and his delegation on occasion of their official visit to Thailand. Laos is the first country that the Prime Minister has made an official visit to since assuming office. This year also marks the 75th anniversary of Thai-Laos diplomatic relations. Both the Prime Ministers agreed to accelerate Thai-Laos cooperation in the following 3 key areas for the two countries to advance together:
First is strengthening border security. Both parties agreed to intensify cooperation in anti-narcotics, which is a national agenda of the two countries, through exchanging information, extending investigations, and promoting cooperation at the local and village levels. As part of the anti-narcotics effort, alternative crop growing is also agreed upon, and the project has already been implemented in Lao PDR’s Houaphan and Bokeo provinces.
Thailand and Laos came to terms on tightening cooperation to suppress call center gangs and hybrid scams which is the region’s common problem. Thailand has proposed leveraging of the Mekong-Lancang framework, which Thailand is chairing this year, to intensify collaborative effort in the region against the problem. The Prime Minister commended Lao PDR for its recent movement to crackdown criminal gangs in the Golden Triangle Special Economic Zone, and affirmed Thailand’s support on investigation extension, through the Technology Crime Suppression Division (TCSD), to be able to arrest and prosecute the culprits.
The two Prime Ministers also discussed the issue of transnational haze and agreed to cooperate in a more concrete manner, i.e., establishing laboratories to enhance monitoring and surveillance of wildfire and hazes, taking forward cross-border firebreak project, and linking Lao PDR’s database and early warning system with the GISTDA system to increase wildfire and haze prevention efficiency.
Regarding flood prevention, the Prime Minister was pleased that Lao PDR’s telemetry system, of which the installation was supported by Thailand, has helped in warning of water levels. Thailand is ready to support the installation of additional telemetry systems in Lao PDR, especially in the tributaries of the Mekong River, and to connect telemetry networks together, which will increase efficiency of the warning system and water management.
Second is promoting shared prosperity and growth. On trade, both parties agreed to achieve bilateral trade value of USD11 billion within 2027. The Prime Minister thanked the Lao Prime Minister for facilitating transport of Thai agro products to China through Lao PDR, especially, allowing entering of more fruit transport trains and increasing the number of cargo checkpoints at the Laos-China border. The two sides also agreed to reinforce cooperation on elimination of agricultural burning in both countries.
Several transport and logistics projects have significantly progressed, including reinforcement of the 1st Friendship Bridge and construction of the 5th Friendship Bridge, which will be ready for use by the end of this year.
Thailand and Laos also agreed to work together in logistics system development strategy, and acceleration of various project implementations, i.e., construction of a new railway bridge in Nong Khai Province, and the Thailand-Laos-China high-speed railway. Joint ventures between the Thai and Lao private sectors will also be promoted for better management of regional transport and logistics. a Thai-Lao Business Forum will later be held to discuss possibilities of this matter.
Third is promoting people-to-people special connection. Thailand and Lao PDR have had long and brotherly relations. Various activities will be held throughout the year to celebrate the 75th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Thailand and the Lao PDR. Thailand will provide over 75 scholarships to Lao students as a symbol of long-standing relations, and will support youth and human resources development. The country will also continue to support Lao PDR in public health, especially in the development of medical personnel and antivenoms, and in agriculture through various royal initiative projects, in a bid to help improve the quality of life of the Lao people.
Both the Prime Ministers also exchanged views on regional and international cooperation. Thailand is ready to cooperate closely with Lao PDR, especially within the framework of the Mekong Subregion and ASEAN, to solve common problems.
In closing, the Prime Minister emphasized Thailand and Lao PDR’s close neighborhood with inseparable interests. On this special occasion of the 75th anniversary of diplomatic relations,
the Prime Minister is pleased and committed to cooperating with the Prime Minister of Lao PDR in promoting well-being and happiness of the Thai and Lao peoples, as well as tightening relations and cooperation between the two countries toward “sustainable relations” into the next 75 years.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/93717