รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM announces Thailand’s intent to propose for hosting of “InterPride World Conference 2025”


วันพุธที่ 14 สิงหาคม 2567
PM announces Thailand’s intent to propose for hosting of “InterPride World Conference 2025”
PM announces Thailand’s intent to propose for hosting of “InterPride World Conference 2025”
August 13, 2024, at 1800hrs, at Santi Maitri Building, Government House, Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin delivered an opening speech at the unity in Action: Thailand's Next Steps in Equality” onTowards Equality and Unity: Announcing Thailand's Advancements in Marriage Equality Legislation and Readiness to Propose Hosting the InterPride World Conference” to affirm Thailand’s advocacy on gender equality and diversity, and announce the country’s intention to propose for the hosting of the “InterPride World Conference 2025” and the “WorldPride 2030”. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist as follows:
The Prime Minister congratulated Thailand’s advancement in gender equality and the rights of the LGBTQ+ community. The progress is made possible by unwavering support of the Thai people and Government, leading to the passing of Marriage Equality Law, another milestone in the country’s history. This is not only a legal achievement, but also a profound reflection to Thai social values which embrace diversity, celebrates human differences, and commits to create a world filled with love and respect that knows no bounds.
The Government looks to the future, and places importance on laying out a long-term plan to support gender equality, and create an open and inclusive society. Although obstacles remain, the Government will continue to fight for equality and advocate for laws that uplift LGBTQ+ rights to ensure that Thailand is a safe destination for the LGBTQ+ community.
Thailand aims to push forward the LGBTQ+ agenda and support Pride communities at both the regional and global levels. The Government strives to stimulate and empower Thai tourism to elevate the country’s image. It also intends to foster economic growth through promoting MICE industry, medical tourism, and long-term stays of LGBTQ+ families. Additionally, it commits to building strategic partnerships through establishing networks and alliances of leaders in promoting and ensuring gender equality and diversity in the Asia region (Asian Pride Alliance).
The Prime Minister announced the Thai Government’s intention to propose Phuket as the host of the InterPride World Conference 2025, which will demonstrate strong collaboration of Thailand’s LGBTQ+ communities and the desire to connect with global Pride network. This is also a significant step forward in the country’s “Road to WorldPride Campaign,” to propose the hosting of the WorldPride 2030.
In closing, the Prime Minister urged for a building of the inclusive world where everyone coexists with respect and celebrates diversity as a foundation of society.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/87143