รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Govt holds press conference regarding repatriation of 45 Uyghur Chinese


วันศุกร์ที่ 28 กุมภาพันธ์ 2568
Govt holds press conference regarding repatriation of 45 Uyghur Chinese
Govt holds press conference regarding repatriation of 45 Uyghur Chinese
February 27, 2025, the Government has held a press conference regarding the deportation of illegal migrants to China.
Participating in the press conference were Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense Phumtham Wechayachai, Minister of Justice Pol.Col. Tawee Sondsong, Minister of Foreign Affairs Maris Sangiampongsa, Deputy Commander of the Immigration Bureau Pol. Lt. Thanit Thaiwacharamas, and Deputy Secretary-General of the National Security Council of Thailand Sorapong Sriyanong. Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed gist as follows:
The Government of China has made an official request through a diplomatic letter for the Royal Thai Government to repatriate the group of 45 Uyghur Chinese who illegally entered Thailand and were arrested and detained in the country for over 10 years without any other charges (except for some who attempted to escape from detention and assaulted officers).
The Chinese Government has sent evidence of nationality verification and relevant criminal records for Thailand’s consideration. It has provided assurance that these repatriates will be allowed to reunite with their families and officially reintegrate back into the society, as they are simply charged with minor offense (illegal departure from China), and are not found to commit a more serious crime. The Chinese Government also affirmed that they will be given fair treatment and safety.
The Chinese Government has also expressed its readiness to invite representatives from the Royal Thai Government to accompany and monitor the travel of these 45 repatriates back to Xinjiang, China to ensure their safe return and to demonstrate China’s respect to the human rights principle. Representatives from Thailand who accompanied these repatriates to Xinjiang were secretary-general of the National Security Council (NSC) Chatchai Bangchuad and Deputy Commander of the Royal Thai Police Pol. Gen. Kraibun Suadsong. The Thai representatives are also allowed to make the follow up visits to monitor the conditions and safety of the returned Uyghurs.
The Chinese Government (both its Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ministry of Public Security) will hold a press conference to reaffirm the safety of these individuals.
The Royal Thai Government has carefully considered all relevant evidence from every party involved taking into account the following issues:
Repatriation of foreign nationals is Thailand’s sovereign power, over which national interest is prioritized. Thailand did not cause nor have anything to do with the problem, but had to shoulder the burden of taking care of these individuals for over 10 years. However, the country has been criticized and pressured instead of sympathy, admiration, assistance, and support that should have been received from all stakeholder states
The Royal Thai Government would like to confirm that the repatriation of these individuals is not for the benefit of any country, but to resolve the issue of these individuals who have had their rights violated for more than 10 years, while Thailand had to bear the burden all along.
The process was carefully undertaken in accordance with Thailand’s internal laws, and
Based on national interest with regards to international relations between the country and other countries, and
In line with fundamental principles and respect for human rights, especially the principle of non-refoulment. The Chinese Government has officially given firm assurance that fair treatment and safety will be provided to this group of repatriates.
The matter has been very carefully considered by all concerned government agencies
These individuals were detained on charge of illegal entry and were facing deportation to their home country. They had been held in cramped detention facilities for more than 10 years which is considered grave violation of human rights by the international community, and into which the Thai Government will thoroughly investigate.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/93924