รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Unofficial Translation Summary of the Key Points in the Press Conference regarding Uyghur Repatriation Ministry of Justice, 27 February 2025


วันศุกร์ที่ 28 กุมภาพันธ์ 2568
Unofficial Translation Summary of the Key Points in the Press Conference regarding Uyghur Repatriation Ministry of Justice, 27 February 2025
Unofficial Translation
Summary of the Key Points in the Press Conference regarding Uyghur Repatriation
Ministry of Justice, 27 February 2025
Thai Government Panel at the Press Conference regarding the recent Uyghur Repatriation, included the following representatives:
(Present at the Ministry of Justice)
Mr. Jirayu Huangsab, Spokesman of the Office of the Prime Minister
Mr. Phumtham Wechayachai, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence
Pol. Col. Tawee Sodsong, Minister of Justice
Mr. Maris Sangiampongsa, Minister of Foreign Affairs
Pol. Maj. Gen. Thanit Thaiwatcharamas, Deputy Commissioner of the Immigration Bureau
Mr. Sorapong Sriyanong, Deputy Secretary-General of the National Security Council
(on video call from Xinjiang, China)
Mr. Chatchai Bangchuad, Secretary-General of the National Security Council
Pol. Gen. Kraiboon Suadsong, Deputy Commissioner-General of the Royal Thai Police
1. Mr. Phumtham Wechayachai led the Press Conference by informing the media that the Thai Government appreciated and intended to respond to the high media interest, attention and inquiry into the recent repatriation of the Uyghur group.
2. The Deputy Prime Minister further clarified that the consideration process was done carefully over a matter of months, to ensure that actions undertaken were in accordance with Thai and international laws and principles.
3. Prior to the recent repatriation of the Uyghur group from Thailand to China, the Thai Government had received an official request to repatriate this group of 40 ethnic Uyghur Chinese nationals. This request was accompanied by clear assurances from the Chinese Government for their safety upon their return to China.
4. These assurances included not only a guarantee of their safety, but a guarantee that no legal action would be taken against this group. Instead, the Chinese Government would facilitate health checkups, a reunion with their families and relatives and appropriate reintegration into society, allocating a budget for their housing and guaranteeing employment.
5. Thailand has had to take care of this group, in accordance with our immigration laws (as is the practice for all countries), for over 10 years. This lengthy detention was not sustainable nor tenable for this group, which had suffered far too long in detention.
6. Therefore once a formal request was received, the Thai Government, through a meeting of the National Security Council, gave the matter its serious consideration. Based on the reasons stated above, and the consent of the group after explaining the conditions of their return, the Thai Government decided to send a Thai delegation to accompany the group to China.
7. The Thai Government representatives accompanying the group comprised the Secretary-General of the National Security Council, a representative of the Royal Thai Police and onsite a representative of the Royal Thai Embassy in Beijing, who joined the group to witness the repatriation to Kashi City, Xinjiang Province, China. In addition to accompanying the group to a school where their vocational training and reintegration would commence, their home and a hospital where one Uyghur Chinese national was given immediate treatment, the Thai Government representatives also met with the group of Uyghurs who were repatriated from Thailand 10 years ago.
8. In order to ensure this group’s smooth reintegration and further safety, the Thai Government will send additional delegations to visit and monitor the group in the days and weeks ahead. This first visit would take place as early as within the next two weeks.
9. Photos and video footage of the return were shared with the media, who were then given an opportunity to raise questions to the panel.
10. Question and Answer Session. A number of operational questions were raised. To the question regarding the timing of the repatriation and why the Thai Government considered it appropriate to act now, Mr. Phumtham responded that prior to this, the Thai Government had in fact exerted consistent efforts for a third country repatriation without success. Once the official request was made by the Chinese Government, the Thai Government therefore decided to seriously consider this repatriation, particularly because assurances and conditions to monitor the group’s reintegration and safety, was agreed to by the Chinese Government at the highest level.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/93916