รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM presents “Thai SELECT” certificates to Thai restaurants in UK


วันศุกร์ที่ 23 พฤษภาคม 2568
PM presents “Thai SELECT” certificates to Thai restaurants in UK
PM presents “Thai SELECT” certificates to Thai restaurants in UK
Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed that on May 22, 2025, at approximately. 1015hrs (London local time), in London, United Kingdom, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra presented the new “Thai SELECT” certificates to 20 Thai restaurants. Attending the event were the delegation from the Ministry of Commerce, comprising Deputy Permanent Secretary Ekachat Seetavorarat, and Deputy Director-General of the Department of International Trade Promotion Pornvit Sila-On.
Presentation of the new “Thai SELECT” certificates is part of the Government’s policy to push forward soft power in the food sector and promote Thai food in the global market. According to the Prime Minister, “Thai food” is one of the country’s soft power and cultural identities, being recognized worldwide for its taste, delicacies, quality, and meticulousness in cooking. To promote Thai food as a soft power, it is important to create a network of overseas Thai restaurants as frontlines in disseminating national identities while enhancing the economic value of Thai food.
After the certificate presentation ceremony, the Prime Minister joined a Thai chef from a Thai SELECT restaurant to demonstrate the cooking of “Miang Kham” in front of over 20 local influencers and media. More Thai restaurants in the UK, especially those whose owners or chefs are British celebrities, are now serving “Miang”, as the dishes feature a variety of Thai fresh ingredients and herbs with authentic taste.
“Thai SELECT” is a mark of certification awarded by the Ministry of Commerce to guarantee the authentic taste of Thai food products at both local and overseas Thai restaurants. It is part of Thailand’s culinary diplomacy, which leverages Thai food as cultural power to promote Thailand’s role on the global stage, both in terms of the economy, tourism, and soft power.
The certification is divided into 4 categories;
1.Thai SELECT Casual – Casual small-sized restaurants or Food Trucks
2.Thai SELECT 1 Star – Fine-Casual Dining
3.Thai SELECT 2 Stars –Upscale Dining
4.Thai SELECT 3 Stars – Premium quality and Superior Dining
At present, there are over 18,852 overseas Thai restaurants across the world. Since 1988, 1,779 restaurants have been certified with “Thai SELECT”. In the UK, there are a total of 115 restaurants, covering several major cities such as London, Manchester, Glasgow, and Edinburgh, that received Thai SELECT certification from the Ministry of Commerce.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/96709