รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on April 4, 2023


วันจันทร์ที่ 10 เมษายน 2566
10/04/2566
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on April 4, 2023
The cabinet met on April 4, 2023. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Waiving of toll fee during Songkran Holiday
The cabinet has made approval to an exemption of toll fee for Burapha Withi Expressway and Motorway No. 9 (Kanchanaphisek Rd.: Bang Phli – Suk Sawat) during Songkran Holiday of 2023. Toll fee will be waived from 0001hrs of April 12, 2023 to 2400hrs of April 18, 2023, a total of 7 days.
Gist
Waiving of toll fee is aimed to facilitate people’s traveling during the long holiday. Ministry of Transport estimates that a total of 2,578,394 vehicles (approx. 368,342 vehicles/day) will be using Burapha Withi Expressway and Motorway No. 9 during the 7 days of fee waiving, which will cost Expressway Authority of Thailand (EXAT) a total revenue of 105.22 million Baht.
However, benefits will be gained from the decrease of vehicle-usage expenses and time-saving cost, which is estimated at 123.98 million Baht (Burapha Withi Expressway: 51.19 million Baht, and Motorway No. 9: 72.79 million Baht).
Title: MOU on the cooperation between the Eastern Economic Corridor Office of Thailand (EECO) and Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency (KOTRA)
The cabinet approved a new MOU on the cooperation between the Eastern Economic Corridor Office of Thailand (EECO) and Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency (KOTRA), and authorized EECO Secretary-General or a representative as signatory of the MOU. This is as proposed by the Eastern Economic Corridor Office of Thailand.
Gist
The new MOU on the cooperation between the Eastern Economic Corridor Office of Thailand (EECO) and Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency (KOTRA) will be a framework for promotion of business and industrial cooperation between Thailand and South Korea in the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC), especially in hi-tech industries, i.e., automation and robotics, advanced agriculture, bio-technology, digital, development, and smart cities. Scope of cooperation includes encouraging private sectors of the two countries to seek business opportunities in the EEC for mutual interest, sharing and exchanging useful and updated information, and providing support to concerned projects and companies. Upon signing, the MOU will take effect for 3 years.
EECO and KOTRA have forged close cooperation on hi-tech industry development and investment in the EEC since 2019 under the first MOU, which expired on November 25, 2022.
Title: Draft Outcomes Document of 2nd ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on Accelerating Actions to Achieve the Sustainable Development Goals
The cabinet approved the draft Outcomes Document of 2nd ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on Accelerating Actions to Achieve the Sustainable Development Goals, which is composed of 1) draft scope of work for ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on Accelerating Actions to Achieve the Sustainable Development Goals; and 2) draft joint statement of the ASEAN Ministerial Dialogue on Accelerating Actions to Achieve The Sustainable Development Goals. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Office of National Economic and Social Development Council may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister Attached to the Prime Minister’s Office (Anucha Nakasai) or a representative is authorized as chief of the Thai delegation and minister in attendance of the 2nd ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on Accelerating Actions to Achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. This is as proposed by Office of National Economic and Social Development Council.
Gist
The 2nd ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on Accelerating Actions to Achieve the Sustainable Development Goals was held on March 31 via video conference, and was co-chaired by Thailand and the Philippines.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/67152