รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on September 13, 2023.


วันเสาร์ที่ 16 กันยายน 2566
The cabinet met on September 13, 2023.
Some of the resolutions are as follows
Title: Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Reduction of Value Added Tax (No. …) B.E. … (Extension of VAT reduction)
The cabinet approved in principle the Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Reduction of Value Added Tax (No. …) B.E. … (Extension of VAT reduction), as proposed by Ministry of Finance, and ordered to proceed. The proposal has been scrutinized by Office of Council of State.
Gist
The draft Royal Decree stipulates extension of VAT reduction for another year. VAT will remain at the rate of 7% (local taxes included) from October 1, 2023- September 30, 2024.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Excise Tax Rates (No. …), B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Excise Tax Rates (No. …), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Finance, and ordered for the draft Ministerial Regulationto be scrutinized by Office of Council of State before proceeding.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Excise Tax Rates (No. …), B.E. … prescribes reduction of excise tax rates for diesel fuel and other similar fuels under excise tax type no. 01.05 as follows:
1. Diesel fuel with sulfur exceeding 0.005% (weight): at 3.940 Baht/unit from 6.440Baht/unit
2. Diesel fuel with sulfur not exceeding 0.005% (weight): at 3.940 Baht/unit from 6.440Baht/unit
3. Diesel fuel with methyl ester biodiesel mixed with not over 4% of fatty acids: at 3.940 Baht/unit from 6.440 Baht/unit
4. Diesel fuel with methyl ester biodiesel mixed with no less than 4% but not over 7% of fatty acids: at 3.670 Baht/unit from 5.990 Baht/unit
5. Diesel fuel with methyl ester biodiesel mixed with no less than 7% but not over 9% of fatty acids: at 3.630 Baht/unit from 5.930 Baht/unit
6. Diesel fuel with methyl ester biodiesel mixed with no less than 9% but not over 14% of fatty acids: at 3.550 Baht/unit from 5.800Baht/unit
7. Diesel fuel with methyl ester biodiesel mixed with no less than 14% but not over 19% of fatty acids: at 3.360 Baht/unit from 5.480Baht/unit
8. Diesel fuel with methyl ester biodiesel mixed with no less than 19% but not over 24% of fatty acids: at 3.153 Baht/unit from 5.153Baht/unit
Title: Approval of Government’s contingency fund for emergency for child support grant
The cabinet approved the budget under Government’s contingency fund for emergency, for the total amount of 998,442,000 Baht, to subsidize the child support grant for fiscal year 2023, as proposed by Ministry of Social Development and Human Security. The grant will be provided as basic welfare for 2,254,534 newborn babies (information as of July 2023) in September 2023.
Title: Havana Declaration on Current Development Challenges: the Role of Science, Technology and Innovation
The cabinet approved the draft Havana Declaration on Current Development Challenges: the Role of Science, Technology and Innovation. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Head of the Thai delegation is authorized to adopt the Declaration at the Summit of Heads of State and Government of the Group of G77 and China to be held during September 15-16, 2023 in Havana, Republic of Cuba. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
The draft Havana Declaration on Current Development Challenges: the Role of Science, Technology and Innovation highlights the important role of science, technology and innovation in enhancing capacity of developing countries to address current global challenges and promote sustainable growth. The draft Declaration also prescribes promotion ofcooperation in science, technology and innovation.
The draft Declaration is the outcome document of the Summit of Heads of State and Government of the Group of G77 and China on “Current Development Challenges: the Role of Science, Technology and Innovation.
​​
Title: Request for approval of Thailand Position Paper and other documents for UNGA78
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Foreign Affairs:
1. Approved the draft Thailand Position Paper for the 78th Session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA78); Political Declaration of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Summit; National Commitment for the SDG Summit; and Final Declaration and Measures to Promote the Entry into Force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty. Should there be an amendment of the 4 aforementioned documents in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
2. Authorized head of the Thai delegation at theSDG Summit or a representative to adopt Political Declaration of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Summit andNational Commitment for the SDG Summit
3. Authorized head of the Thai delegation or a representative at the Conference on Facilitating the Entry into Force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT Article XIV Conference) to adopt the Final Declaration and Measures to Promote the Entry into Force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty.
Gist of Thailand Position Paper for the 78thSession of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA78)
Thailand Position Paper for the 78th Session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA78) covers issues in the UNGA78’s 177 agendas under the following 9 categories: 1) Promoting sustainable economic development and growth in accordance with resolutions of the United Nations General Assembly and related meetings; 2) Maintaining international peace and security; 3) African development; 4) Promotion of human rights;
5) Effective coordination of humanitarian assistance; 6) Promotion of justice and international law; 7) Disarmament; 8) Narcotics control, crime prevention, and anti-terrorism of all forms; and 8) Organizational administration and others.
Title: Appointment of Acting Minister of Foreign Affairs
The cabinet approved in principle an appointment of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Commerce Phumtham Wechayachai ​as acting Minister of Foreign Affairs in the case that there is no Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs on duty, or there is but unable to perform duty. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Title: Appointment of political officials (Office of Prime Minister’s Secretary General)
The cabinet approved the proposal of Office of Prime Minister’s Secretary General on appointment of the followings:
1. Mr. Somkid Cheukhong​Prime Minister’s Deputy Secretary General for Political Affairs
2. Mr. Chakkapol Tangsutthitham Prime Minister’s Deputy Secretary General for Political Affairs
3. Mr. Phongsaran Assavachaisophon Prime Minister’s Deputy Secretary General for Political Affairs
4. Mr. Chai Wacharonke​​Government Spokesperson
This is to be in effect from September 13, 2023 onward.
Title: Assignment of Deputy Prime Ministers as Acting Prime Minister
The cabinet approved the proposal of Office of Prime Minister’s Secretary General on assignment of Deputy Prime Ministers as Acting Prime Minister in the following respective order:
1. Mr. Phumtham Wechayachai
2. Mr. Somsak Thepsutin                   ​
3. Mr. Parnpree Bahiddha-Nukara
4. Mr. Anutin Charnvirakul                   ​
5. Pol. Gen. Phatcharavat Wongsuwan​
6. Mr. Pirapan Salirathavibhaga
Acting Prime Minister shall need prior consent from the Prime Minister in making orders related to personnel management and administration, and budget approval.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/72266