รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on December 20, 2022. 


วันศุกร์ที่ 23 ธันวาคม 2565
23/12/2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on December 20, 2022.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on annulment of land which is domain public of state for common use of people in Na Jom Thien subdistrict, Sattahip district, Chonburi province, B.E. …
The cabinet approved the followings:
Approved in principle the draft Royal Decree on annulment of land which is domain public of state for common use of people in Na Jom Thien subdistrict, Sattahip district, Chonburi province, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Interior, and ordered for the draft Royal Decree to be forwarded to Office of Council of State
Ministry of Interior is to take opinions of Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives and Ministry of Transport into consideration
Office of the Attorney General is to take opinions of Office of National Economic and Social Development Council into consideration
Gist
The draft Royal Decree prescribes annulment of land which is domain public of state for common use of people in Na Jom Thien subdistrict, Sattahip district, Chonburi province, with the approximate area of 20 rai 2 ngan 52 square wah, for Office of the Attorney General’s use as location of its provincial office and public prosecutor residence.
Title: Draft Royal Decree on exemption of toll fee for Motorway No. 7 and No. 9 for a specified period (No. …) B.E. … (During New Year Holiday of 2023)
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Royal Decree on exemption of toll fee for Motorway No. 7 and No. 9 for a specified period (No. …) B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Transport.
Gist
The draft Royal Decree prescribes exemption of toll fee for Motorway No. 7 (Bangkok-Ban Chang), and No. 9 (Kanchanaphisek Rd.: - Bang Phli - Phra Pradaeng) from 0001hrs of December 29, 2022 to 2400hrs of January 4, 2023. This is to facilitate people’s traveling during the long holidays.
Title: Establishment of Department of Climate Change and Environment
The cabinet acknowledged an establishment of the Department of Climate Change and Environment, as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment.
Gist
The Department of Climate Change and Environment will consist of 6 divisions: Office of the Secretary, the Strategic and International Cooperation Division, the Greenhouse Gas Reduction Division, the Climate Adaptation Division, the Promotion of Climate Change and Environmental Participation Division, and the Climate Change and Environmental Research Center.
The Department is responsible for proposing and developing strategies, plans, and programs for the country’s climate change management and adaptation and greenhouse gas reduction, and translating related policies into action.
Title: Request for allocation of Government’s central fund for contingency and emergency (FY2023) for cooking gas subsidy for low-income earners
The cabinet approved 302.5 million Baht in budget from the Government’s central fund for contingency and emergency to the Department of Energy Business. This is as proposed by Ministry of Energy.
Gist
The budget allocation has earlier been approved by the cabinet to subsidize cooking gas expenses for approx. 5.5 million state welfare card holders through the 100 baht per month subsidy given for 3 months to alleviate the burden of low-income earners during October 25 and December 31, 2022.
However, Ministry of Energy was of the view that the LPG prices remain high, and there is a need to extend the subsidy period to continue alleviating the burden of low-income earners. The extension of the 100 baht per month subsidy is, therefore, approved for the period of 3 months from January- March 2023.
Title: Action plan and budget for Thailand’s participation in the Expo 2025 Osaka Kansai
The cabinet has made approval to the action plan and budget for Thailand’s participation in the Expo 2025 Osaka Kansai, as proposed by Ministry of Public Health.
Gist
Thailand is scheduled to participate in the Expo 2025 Osaka Kansai, to be held at Yumeshima Island, Osaka, Japan during April 13- October 13, 2025 (6 months) with the theme: "Designing Future Society for Our Lives", with sub-themes of "Saving Lives", "Empowering Lives" and "Connecting Lives". This is a World Expo, held once every 5 years by the Bureau International des Expositions (BIE). Ministry of Public Health will be the main agency in administering the Thai Pavilion, which will be exhibited under theme: “THAILAND Empowering Lives for Greatest Happiness”.
Ministry of Public Health’s Department of Health Service Support has had several meetings with other concerned agencies to come up with Thailand’s exhibition plan and format, and budget to be proposed to the cabinet for approval.
Thailand Pavilion, named “VIMAN THAI”, will be constructed in the zone “Connecting Lives” with 3,500 square meters in the exhibition area. VIMAN THAI will be divided into 5 zones, called “S.M.I.L.E.”, which comprises: 1) S: SIAM (Thailand-related exhibition); 2) M: Medical Hub (Thailand as international medical hub); 3) I: Intelligence toward innovation (food and herb production capacity and technologies); 4) L: Living Lab (workshops and activities); and 5) E: Enhanced and Enjoy our family (showcasing Thailand – Japan relations of over 600 years).
The budget will be allocated from FY2023-2026 budget (4 years) for the total amount of 973.48 million Baht, and will be used for administration and preparation (105.60 million Baht), and exhibition operation (867.88 million Baht). According to the Deputy Government Spokesperson, Thailand’s participation in the Expo 2025 Osaka Kansai will be a good opportunity for the country to showcase its image and reputation as international medical hub, strengthen relations and cooperation with other countries, and exchange knowledge and experiences on medical technology and innovation, as well as to expand market for health and medical business operators.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/63038