รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on January 7, 2025. 


วันจันทร์ที่ 20 มกราคม 2568
20/01/2568
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on January 7, 2025.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Revenue Taxes (No. …) B.E. … (Income tax exemption for subsidies over a project on upgrade of collaborative farms through modern agriculture and market linkage)
The cabinet approved in principle the Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Revenue Taxes (No. …) B.E. … (Income tax exemption for subsidies over a project on upgrade of collaborative farms through modern agriculture and market linkage), as proposed by Ministry of Finance.
Gist
Following the cabinet’s resolution, dated September 15, 2020, to approve subsidies for collaborative farms under the project on upgrade of collaborative farms through modern agriculture and market linkage, at 3 million Baht per plot (a total of 3,377 plots), for the farmer groups to spend on the increase of production efficiency and standardization, and product quality upgrade, Ministry of Finance views that the subsidies should not be considered incomes, and, therefore, proposed the Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Revenue Taxes (No. …) B.E. … (Income tax exemption for subsidies over a project on upgrade of collaborative farms through modern agriculture and market linkage) to exempt income tax on the said subsidies.
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Ubon Ratchathani province (Nam Yeun district’s Song and Sri Vichien subdistricts), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Ubon Ratchathani province (Nam Yeun district’s Song and Sri Vichien subdistricts), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives. The ministry shall take comments of Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, and Official of Council of State into consideration.
Gist
The Royal Decree prescribes areas in Ubon Ratchathani province (Nam Yeun district’s Song and Sri Vichien subdistricts), approx. 204 plots, to be expropriated for construction of water distribution system under the Lam Huai Bon Reservoir Project under the Royal Initiative. This is for irrigational purpose. Land survey and appropriation shall commence within 90 days after the Royal Decree is in effect.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation prescribing state agency eligible for the request of administration actions from judicial officers (No. …), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Ministerial Regulation prescribing state agency eligible for the request of administration actions from judicial officers (No. …), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Tourism and Sports.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation prescribes Sports Authority of Thailand as state agency eligible for the request of administration actions from judicial officers in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, B.E. 2539 (1996) and the revised Administrative Procedure Act (No. 3), B.E. 2562 (2019).
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation prescribing state agencies listed under Official Information Act B.E. 2540 (1997) B.E. ....
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation prescribing state agencies listed under Official Information Act B.E. 2540 (1997) B.E. ...., as proposed by Office of Permanent Secretary to the Prime Minister’s Office.
Gist
The following state agencies will be included and listed under the draft Ministerial Regulation prescribing state agencies listed under Official Information Act B.E. 2540 (1997) B.E. ....:
1) Public organizations under the Public Organization Act, such as the Community Organization Development Institute (Public Organization), Geo-Informatics and Space Technology Development Agency (Public Organization), and the Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn Anthropology Centre (Public Organization); 2) State agencies established under specific laws (only public organizations according to the cabinet resolutions and proposals of the Public Organization Development and Promotion Committee), such as the National Science and Technology Development Agency, the Health Systems Research Institute, and the Arbitration Institute; 3) Higher education institutions that are not state agencies but are under state supervision, such as Chulalongkorn University, Kasetsart University, and King Mongkut's University of Technology Thonburi; and 4) Administrative units of independent state organizations, such as the Bank of Thailand, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the National Broadcasting and Telecommunications Commission. This is to provide the public with the opportunity to access and be informed of information in the possession of such agencies.
Title: Memorandum of Understanding on the Cooperation on Projects of the Mekong-Lancang Cooperation Special Fund 2024
The cabinet approved the draft Memorandum of Understanding on the Cooperation on Projects of the Mekong-Lancang Cooperation Special Fund 2024. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Higher Education, Sciences, Research and Innovation may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation or a representative is authorized as signatory of the draft MoU. This is as proposed by the Ministry of Higher Education, Sciences, Research and Innovation.
Gist
The Memorandum of Understanding on the Cooperation on Projects of the Mekong-Lancang Cooperation Special Fund 2024 will be a guideline for Ministry of Higher Education, Sciences, Research and Innovation to manage grant funds received from the Chinese Embassy in Thailand. The grant funds, a total of USD2,656,900, will be used for the implementation of 10 projects, e.g., Sustainable Agriculture Promotion Project in Lancang-Mekong Subregion: Integration of Bio-Fertilizers for Economic Crop Production and Food Processing for Technology Transfer to Bio-Circular-Green Economy (BCG Economy) by Chiang Mai University (USD388,400); Mekong Spice Route Project: Development of Platform for Food Arts and Science Tourism & Cultural Tourism by Maejo University, (USD327,200). Ministry of Tourism and Sports, the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Public Health, the Ministry of Industry, the National Economic and Social Development Board, and the National Water Resources Office have all scrutinized and have no objection on the draft MoU.
Title: ASEAN’s Guidelines and Minimum Standards on Nutrition
The cabinet approved 5 documents regarding ASEAN’s Guidelines and Minimum Standards on Nutrition. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Public Health may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Public Health or a representative is authorized to adopt the 5 documents via e-mail. This is as proposed by the Ministry of Public Health.
Gist
The 5 documents regarding ASEAN’s Guidelines and Minimum Standards on Nutrition compile the study and research outcome on nutrition to provide guidelines and standards for policy-making and implementation of ASEAN member countries in the area of nutrition. The 5 documents are:
ASEAN Guidelines and Minimum Standards for Maternal Nutrition
ASEAN Guidelines and Minimum Standards for implementation of Mandatory Large – scale Food Fortification
ASEAN Regional Guidelines on Minimum Standards for Management of Child Wasting in National Health Systems
Minimum Standards and Guidelines for the ASEAN School Nutrition Package
Minimum standards and guidelines on actions to protect children from the harmful impact of marketing, of food and non-alcoholic beverages in the ASEAN region
Title Outcome documents for the 5th ASEAN Digital Ministers’ Meeting (The 5 th ADGMIN) and related meetings
The cabinet approved 8 draft outcome documents for the 5th ASEAN Digital Ministers’ Meeting (The 5 th ADGMIN) and related meetings. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Digital Economy and Society may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Digital Economy and Society or a representative is authorized to adopt the 8 documents. This is as proposed by the Ministry of Digital Economy and Society.
Gist
The 5th ASEAN Digital Minister’s Meeting (ADGMIN) will be held in Bangkok during January 12-17, 2025 under the theme: “Secure, Innovative, Inclusive : Shaping ASEAN’s Digital Future”. Documents to be adopted at the 5th ASEAN Digital Minister’s Meeting are:
Bangkok Digital Declaration
Joint Media Statement
Digital Identification in ASEAN - Baseline study on how ASEAN leverage the digitalization of ID
Operational Framework for Global Cross -Border Privacy Rules : Global CBPR and Global Privacy Recognition for Processors (Global PRP)
Expanded ASEAN Guide on AI Governance and Ethics (Generative AI)
Report of the Online Scams Activities in ASEAN (2023 - 2024) under the ASEAN Working Group on Anti - Online Scam (WG -AS)
ASEAN Recommendations on Ant - Online Scam
ASEAN Digital Government Interoperability Framework

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/92593