รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on June 4, 2025.


วันศุกร์ที่ 13 มิถุนายน 2568
13/06/2568
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on June 4, 2025.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on convocation of first ordinary session of the National Assembly, B.E. …
The Cabinet approved in principle the Draft Royal Decree on convocation of first ordinary session of the National Assembly, B.E. … (from July 3, 2025 onward), as proposed by the Cabinet Secretariat.
According to Section 121 of the Constitution of the Kingdom of Thailand, each year there shall be two ordinary sessions of the National Assembly, each of which shall last 120 days. The day on which the first sitting is held shall be considered the commencement date of the first annual ordinary session, and the commencement date of the second annual ordinary session shall be fixed by the House of Representatives.In light of the above, the convocation and prorogation dates of the National Assembly are set as follows:
Year
First annual ordinary session
Second annual ordinary session
1
July 3 – October 30, 2023
December 12, 2023 – April 9, 2024
2
July 3 – October 30, 2024
December 12, 2023 – April 9, 2025
3
July 3 – October 30, 2025
December 12, 2023 – April 9, 2026
4
July 3 – October 30, 2026
December 12, 2023 – April 9, 2027
It is, therefore, appropriate for the second annual ordinary session of the National Assembly to be convoked from July 3, 2025 onward.
Title: Study outcome of report on guidelines for solving monkey problems by Committee on Land, Natural Resources and Environment, House of Representatives
The cabinet acknowledged study outcome of report on guidelines for solving monkey problems by Committee on Land, Natural Resources and Environment, House of Representatives, as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment.
Gist
Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment and relevant agencies have scrutinized the report on guidelines for solving monkey problems by Committee on Land, Natural Resources and Environment, House of Representatives, and agreed with their recommendations on accelerating management of monkey populations, providing a place to care for monkeys, managing leftover food from markets to feed the monkeys, and inquiring a property to build the monkey shelter.
Title: Private sector proposals on President Donald Trump’s tariff policy
The cabinet acknowledged private sector proposals on President Donald Trump’s tariff policy compiled at the Forum “Decoding Trump's Tariff Policy: Opportunities for a Modern Trade Era” by Ministry of Commerce.
Gist
Ministry of Commerce’s Foreign Trade Department, in collaboration with the Thai Chamber of Commerce and Board of Trade of Thailand, Federation of Thai Industries, economic experts and private sector representatives from key industry groups who are expected to be affected by President Donald Trump's tariff policies, organized a forum on " Decoding Trump's Tariff Policy: Opportunities for a Modern Trade Era" on April 25, 2025 at the Department of International Trade Promotion. At the forum, 5 aspects of guidelines have been identified for the Government’s consideration as follows: 1) Strategic planning and positioning in trade negotiations with the United States; 2) Trade monitoring and impact prevention; 3) Sustainable structural reforms; 4) Market expansion and trade risk diversification; and 5) Competitiveness enhancement of Thai entrepreneurs.
Title: Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand and the Sultan of Brunei Darussalam for the Elimination of Double Taxation with Respect to Taxes on Income and the Prevention of Tax Evasion and Avoidance
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Finance:
Approved the draft Agreement between the Kingdom of Thailand and the Sultan of Brunei Darussalam for the Elimination of Double Taxation with Respect to Taxes on Income and the Prevention of Tax Evasion and Avoidance (English version). Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Finance may proceed without having to resubmit the document to the cabinet.
Authorized Minister of Finance or a representative as signatory of the draft Agreement. Minitry of Foreign Affairs is to issue the Full Powers to the signatory.
Assigned Ministry of Foreign Affairs to proceed with the delivery of the document via a diplomatic channel. Ministry of Finance has had the document translated into Thai for domestic use only.
Brunei Darussalam is the last ASEAN nation that signed such convention/agreement with Thailand.
Title: Thailand’s position at the 3rd United Nations Ocean Conference (UNOC-3)
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment:
Approved the draft Political Declaration titled, ‘Our Ocean, Our Future: United for Urgent Action’. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment may proceed without having to resubmit the document to the cabinet.
Approved Thailand’s declaration of voluntary commitment on reducing marine pollution and sustainably protecting and managing marine and coastal ecosystems.
Authorized Minister of of Natural Resources and Environment or a representative to adopt the draft Declaration without signing.
Adoption of the draft Political Declaration titled, ‘Our Ocean, Our Future: United for Urgent Action’ and Thailand’s declaration of voluntary commitment will be carried out at the 3rd United Nations Ocean Conference (UNOC-3) to be held during June 9-13, 2025 in Nice, Republic of France.
Gist
The draft Political Declaration titled, ‘Our Ocean, Our Future: United for Urgent Action’ prescribes political will and an escalation of action to achieve Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 14, which is to conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources, in three aspects: 1) Conserving oceans and marine ecosystems, 2) Promoting sustainable ocean-based economies, and 3) accelerating action in various areas, such as the adoption of an agreement on the conservation of marine biodiversity.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/97418