รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM affirms Thai Govt’s stance for peaceful resolution on Thai-Cambodian border situation


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 12 มิถุนายน 2568
12/06/2568
พิมพ์
​PM affirms Thai Govt’s stance for peaceful resolution on Thai-Cambodian border situation
​PM affirms Thai Govt’s stance for peaceful resolution on Thai-Cambodian border situation
June 11, 2025, at 1120hrs, at the meeting room of Kap Choeng Hospital, Kap Choeng district, Surin, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra presided oved a meeting to follow up on the Thai Cambodian border situation and relief measures for residents of the border areas in 7 provinces. Participating in the meeting were Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense Phumtham Wechayachai, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Anutin Charnvirakul, Deputy Minister of Defense Gen. Nattaphon Narkphanit, together with governors of Surin, Ubon Ratchathani, Sisaket, Burirum, and Sakaeo, Commander of the 2nd Army Area, and provincial executives. Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister acknowledged improvement of the situation, and instructed provincial governors, Commander of the 2nd Army Area, and provincial executives to continue providing assistance to people living in the 7 border provinces. She also ordered Ministry of Interior to brief local residents and kids on the usefulness of the shelters which may come in handy during natural disasters or other disasters.
Commander of the 2nd Army Area reported to the Prime Minister on all dimensions of preparedness, both in terms of security and caring of residents. Thailand and Cambodia have had talks and came to terms on peaceful resolution. He emphasized that Thailand wanted to avoid violence and would prioritize the safety of people, frontline officers, and properties.
The Prime Minister called on Ministry of Interior and the military to work in an integrative manner as the saying goes “Ministry of Interior is a house, and the military is the fence”. Provincial governors are instructed to work closely together, especially on monitoring the border areas, and ensuring safety and sufficiency of basic necessities. Local authorities are also urged to constantly communicate with the local people to prevent fake news and misunderstanding.
According to the Prime Minister, the Government always stands ready to support and take good care of the people and officers upon their requests. She also affirmed the Thai Government’s stance for peaceful resolution. All concerned agencies and authorities are called on to work as ‘Team Thailand’ to carry out negotiations in a bid to resolve the problems one by one.
After the meeting, the Prime Minister and delegation went on to visit the Suranaree Task Force Base in Surin’s Kap Choeng district to boost their morale.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/97400