รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Astrazeneca ready for R&D cooperation with Thailand


วันพุธที่ 22 มกราคม 2568
22/01/2568
พิมพ์
Astrazeneca ready for R&D cooperation with Thailand
Astrazeneca ready for R&D cooperation with Thailand
January 21, 2025, at 1700hrs (Davos local time), in Davos, Swiss Federation, during her attendance at the World Economic Forum Annual Meeting 2025 (WEF AM25), Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra met with Mr. Michel Demaré, Chair of the Board of AstraZeneca, a leading multinational pharmaceutical and biotechnology company. Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister thanked AstraZeneca for its continued contribution and support to Thailand on its vision of becoming a regional health and medical hub. She expressed her pleasure at learning about AstraZeneca's global leadership role in inventing medicines for global diseases, such as diabetes and cancer, which have changed the lives of people around the world.
The Prime Minister called for cooperation between Thailand and AstraZeneca in education, research and development. Thailand aims to become a global hub for medicine and public health. The country boasts medical schools that produce quality doctors and medical personnel, which has made Thai medicine and public health services trusted by foreigners, especially those from the Middle East. The Government has given importance to promoting medical research and innovation, and is opened to more foreign investments in these areas. It also strives to strengthen cooperation with the private sector, and would be pleased to forge R&D cooperation with AstraZeneca in a bid to respond to the increasing challenges of non-communicable diseases in the country.
AstraZeneca’s Chair of the Board commended Thailand's medical potential. The Company is ready to share its knowhow in medicine and healthcare with the Thai partners to promote biomedical innovation and improve access to healthcare, focusing on non-communicable diseases (NCDs).

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/92623