รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM to follow up on flood situation in Ubon Ratchathani


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 5 ตุลาคม 2566
05/10/2566
พิมพ์
PM to follow up on flood situation in Ubon Ratchathani
PM to follow up on flood situation in Ubon Ratchathani
October 3, 2023, at 11.40hrs, at the Command Building I, Government House, following the weekly cabinet meeting, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin disclosed about the current flood in several areas that the situation now remains in control. He has instructed members of the cabinet and MPs to provide immediate help and relief to flood-affected victims in their respective areas.
This Friday, the Prime Minister is also scheduled to pay a field visit to Ubon Ratchathani province where long-lasting flood occurs very often, badly affecting the province’s cultivation areas. With regard to the long-term preventive scheme, the Government will come up with ‘no-flood, no drought’ integrative plan which will be announced later. The Prime Minister added that water for public consumption remains adequate, while ecosystem conservation management is also intact. However, the issues of concern is farming. With flood being the problem now and the dry season looming over in the next 6 months, proper water resource management is urgently needed. Water for industrial usage is also another crucial concern. The Government plans to address the issue in a proactive manner to prevent water shortage for industrial use.
The Prime Minister also informed that the Government is closely monitoring baht depreciation, and there is no need now for the government to intervene. Besides, there is also an upside from the situation of baht depreciation. Export and tourism, which accounts for over 50% and 20% of the country’s GDP respectively, will be boosted as a result. He also admitted the impact of baht depreciation over prices of imported gasoline, but the Government has also planned on alternative energy as a long-term solution to the problem.
On his meetings with high-ranking government officials, and heads of public agencies, the Prime Minister wanted those meetings to be rather unofficial and simple to facilitate more engaged and directed conversation, information-sharing, and idea-generating. With regard to the conflict between top police officers, he was informed that there was a talk to clear the air, and added that differing opinions at workplaces is common. The more important thing is that everyone work together to ensure national security and public safety.
The Prime Minister has also met with the Bank of Thailand Governor to discuss the digital wallet policy and related medium and long-term impact. He affirmed that even if any emergency situation occurs, Thailand’s trade and financial stability remains intact. The Prime Minister also clarified the Government’s decision to delay arms procurement plans for fiscal year 2024 that this is not a priority for budget expenditure. Unnecessary plans under other government agencies would also be reviewed, as the budget should be spent on the more needy plans and projects for the best interest of the country and people.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/72979