รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on October 24, 2023. 


วันจันทร์ที่ 30 ตุลาคม 2566
30/10/2566
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on October 24, 2023.
The cabinet met on October 24, 2023. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Request for extension for preparation of subordinate laws under the Anti-Human
Trafficking Act, B.E. 2551, which was to be amended in accordance with the Royal Decree on
Amendment of Anti-Human Trafficking Act, B.E. 2551, B.E. 2562
The cabinet approved the extension for preparation of subordinate laws under the Anti-Human
Trafficking Act, B.E. 2551, which was to be amended in accordance with the Royal Decree on
Amendment of Anti-Human Trafficking Act, B.E. 2551, B.E. 2562, as proposed by Ministry of Social
Development and Human Security.
Gist
Preparation of 6 subordinate laws under the Anti-Human Trafficking Act, B.E. 2551, which was to be
amended in accordance with the Royal Decree on Amendment of Anti-Human Trafficking Act, B.E.
2551, B.E. 2562, will be extended for a year from November 27, 2023 onward. The extension was
requested as the amendment of the 6 subordinate laws needs comments and fact-finding from
several agencies (i.e., Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Labor, Ministry of Justice, and the Royal Thai
Police), and it takes time to determine common criteria in accordance with the Anti-Human
Trafficking Act, B.E. 2551.
Title: Request for Approval on Budget Ceiling for Thailand’s Hosting of 6 th Asian Indoor and
Martial Arts Games (2021)
The cabinet acknowledged and approved the followings:
1. Acknowledged postponement of the dates for Thailand’s Hosting of 6th Asian Indoor and
Martial Arts Games (2021) from November 17-26, 2023 to February 24 – March 6, 2024, as
proposed by Ministry of Tourism and Sports
2. Approved in principle budget ceiling for Thailand’s Hosting of 6th Asian Indoor and Martial
Arts Games (2021) at the amount of 1,745 million Baht, which will be allocated from the
non-budget of Sports Authority of Thailand as first priority (e.g., from organization’s savings,
National Sports Development Fund, TV rights, spectator and service fees, etc.), and be
allocated from the national budget (as second priority).
Thailand’s Hosting of 6th Asian Indoor and Martial Arts Games (2021) will showcase the country’s
positive image to the global community, boost confidence of tourists and investors on Thailand’s
capability, and distribute revenues to localities. Approx. 15,000 people are expected to attend the
6th Asian Indoor and Martial Arts Games (2021).
Title: Request for FY2024 loans to bolster liquidity of Bangkok Mass Transit Authority (where
income doesn’t cover expenses)
The cabinet approved the proposal of Ministry of Transport for Bangkok Mass Transit Authority to
seek loans in the fiscal year 2024 to bolster liquidity (where income doesn’t cover expenses) for
the total amount of 8,268.469 million Baht. Ministry of Finance shall be loan guarantor.
Title: Draft Joint Statement on Promotion of Information Sharing between Ministry of
Defense of the Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Defense of the Commonwealth of
Australia
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Defense:
1. Approved the draft Joint Statement on Promotion of Information Sharing between Ministry
of Defense of the Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Defense of the Commonwealth of
Australia
2. Approved for Permanent Secretary of Ministry of Defense or a representative as signatory of
the Joint Statement
3. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist, Ministry of Defense may proceed
as appropriate
Gist
The draft Joint Statement on Promotion of Information Sharing between Ministry of Defense of the
Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Defense of the Commonwealth of Australia demonstrates
joint intent to determine procedures, frameworks, and appropriate legal procedures for exchanging
and sharing information between agencies under the Ministry of Defense of both countries. The
Joint Statement will enhance cooperation between Ministry of Defense of the two countries, and
will promote capacity building of Thailand and Australia in response to common security
challenges.
Title: The ASEAN-Japan Tourism Ministers' Special Dialogue
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Tourism and Sports:
1. Approved the draft Joint Statement of the ASEAN-Japan Tourism Ministers' Special
Dialogue. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against the principle
approved by the cabinet, Ministry of Tourism and Sports may proceed without having to
resubmit to the cabinet.
2. Approved for Minister of Tourism and Sports or a representative to adopt the Joint
Statement
Gist
The ASEAN-Japan Tourism Ministers' Special Dialogue is held under the theme: “Next 50 Years with
ASEAN and Japan: Designing the Path to Sustainable Tourism Together” to commemorate the 50 th
anniversary of ASEAN-Japan Friendship and Cooperation. The event was held in parallel with
Tourism Expo Japan 2023 during October 26-29, 2023 in Osaka, Japan.
The meeting is aimed to reach a consensus on the direction for future cooperation in promoting
sustainable tourism and advancing mutual exchange of tourists. The draft Joint Statement of the
ASEAN-Japan Tourism Ministers' Special Dialogue will be adopted on October 28, 2023.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/73921