รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on January 2, 2023. 


วันจันทร์ที่ 8 มกราคม 2567
The cabinet met on January 2, 2023.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation prescribing state agency eligible for the request of administration actions from judicial officers (No. …), B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation prescribing state agency eligible for the request of administration actions from judicial officers (No. …), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Public Health.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation prescribes National Health Security Office (NHSO) as one of the state agencies eligible for the request of administration actions from judicial officers in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, B.E. 2539 (1996) and the revised Administrative Procedure Act (No. 3), B.E. 2562 (2019).
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Revocation of Ministerial Regulations Issued under Outdated Laws on Chamber of Commerce, B.E. … (Repealing of Chamber of Commerce Fee)
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Revocation of Ministerial Regulations Issued under Outdated Laws on Chamber of Commerce, B.E. … (Repealing of Chamber of Commerce Fee), as proposed by Ministry of Commerce, and scrutinized by Office of Council of State.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Revocation of Ministerial Regulations Issued under Outdated Laws on Chamber of Commerce, B.E. … (Repealing of Chamber of Commerce Fee) prescribes repealing Chamber of Commerce Fee under Ministerial Regulation No. 1 (B.E. 2509), issued under the Chamber of Commerce Act , B.E. 2509; and revoking Ministerial Regulation No. 3 (B.E. 2551), issued under the Chamber of Commerce Act , B.E. 2509.
Title: Protocol No. 2 to Amend Agreement on ASEAN-Australia-New Zealand Free Trade Area (AANZFTA)
The cabinet approved the following proposals made by Ministry of Commerce:
Approved Protocol No. 2 to Amend Agreement on ASEAN-Australia-New Zealand Free Trade Area (AANZFTA) and Annexes
Approved Minister of Commerce or a representative as signatory of the Protocol No. 2 to Amend Agreement on ASEAN-Australia-New Zealand Free Trade Area (AANZFTA). Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Minister of Commerce or a representative may exercise their judgment and proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet
Assigned Minister of Foreign Affairs to issue the Full Powers to Minister of Commerce or a representative for the signing of Protocol No. 2 to Amend Agreement on ASEAN-Australia-New Zealand Free Trade Area (AANZFTA).
Proposed to the Parliament for its approval on the Protocol No. 2 to Amend Agreement on ASEAN-Australia-New Zealand Free Trade Area (AANZFTA) and annexes
Assigned concerned agencies to proceed according to the Protocol No. 2 to Amend Agreement on ASEAN-Australia-New Zealand Free Trade Area (AANZFTA), which will take effect 60 days after Australia, New Zealand, and at least 4 ASEAN member countries have submitted their instruments of ratification to the ASEAN Secretary-General.
Assigned Minister of Foreign Affairs to submit Thailand’s instruments of ratification to the ASEAN Secretary-General after the Protocol No. 2 to Amend Agreement on ASEAN-Australia-New Zealand Free Trade Area (AANZFTA) is approved by the Parliament
Gist
The Protocol No. 2 to Amend Agreement on ASEAN-Australia-New Zealand Free Trade Area (AANZFTA) prescribes upgrade and amendment of commitments under the current AANZFTA agreement to cover commitments in trade, services, investment and related economic issues. Negotiations will be conducted based on the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP).
Title: Agreement between Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and Government of People’s Republic of China on Mutual Visa Exemption for Holders of Ordinary Passports and Semi-Official Passports
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Foreign Affairs:
Approved the draft Agreement between Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and Government of People’s Republic of China on Mutual Visa Exemption for Holders of Ordinary Passports and Semi-Official Passports. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against the principle approved by the cabinet, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed and inform the cabinet later of the amendment.
Approved Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs or a representative as signatory of the Agreement. Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall issue the Full Powers to a representative to sign the document.
Approved for concerned agencies, particularly Ministry of Interior, and Royal Thai Police’s Immigration Office to proceed accordingly to ensure that the Agreement be taken into force on March 1, 2024
Approved for concerned agencies, particularly Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Tourism and Sports, Royal Thai Police’s Immigration Office, Office of National Security Council, National Intelligence Agency, and Office of The Narcotics Control Board to proceed accordingly.
Gist
The draft Agreement prescribes mutual visa exemption for holders of ordinary passports and semi-official passports of the two countries for up to 30 days (single entry), and up to 90 days in case of multiple entries within 180 days.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/77133