รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on February 4, 2025


วันอังคารที่ 18 กุมภาพันธ์ 2568
18/02/2568
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on February 4, 2025
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Act on Amendment of Civil Procedure Code (No. ...) B.E. .... (Amendment of Table V of Civil Procedure Code)
The cabinet approved the draft Act on Amendment of Civil Procedure Code (No. ...) B.E. .... (Amendment of Table V of Civil Procedure Code), as proposed by Ministry of Justice, and scrutinized by Office of Council of State.
Gist
Ministry of Justice is of the view that the Act on the Amendment of Civil Procedure Code (Issue no. 23) B.E. 2550 needs to be updated to be in line with the current economic situation, and proposed an amendment of provisions under the Civil Procedure Code regarding executing officer’s fees as follows:
Fees
Current Law
Proposed Law
Remark
1. Sale by auction or disposal by other means of property seized or attached
2. Payment of money seized or attached to creditors
3. When property which is not money is seized, and it is not sold or disposed of
4. When money is seized or attached or property is attached and it is not sold or disposed of
5. Sale by bidding between parties
3% of the proceeds of the sale or disposal
2% of the amount of money seized or attached
2% of the value of property seized
1% of the amount of money seized or attached or of the value of property seized
2% of the highest bid
2% of the proceeds of the sale or disposal
1% of the amount of money seized or attached
-Revoked-
-Revoked-
2% of the highest bid
Publication costs and expenses shall be additionally paid
Calculation of the value of property seized or attached for payment of fees under 3 and 4 shall be made by an executing officer. If it cannot be agreed, the party concerned shall submit the matter to the court as provided in section 296.
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Udon Thani province (Muang district’s Nong Bua, Nong Na Kham, Nong Khon Kwang, Ban Jan, and Non Sung subdistricts), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Udon Thani province (Muang district’s Nong Bua, Nong Na Kham, Nong Khon Kwang, Ban Jan, and Non Sung subdistricts), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Transport.
Gist
The Royal Decree prescribes areas in Udon Thani province (Muang district’s Nong Bua, Nong Na Kham, Nong Khon Kwang, Ban Jan, and Non Sung subdistricts) to be expropriated for construction and expansion of rural highways, Road No. Kor 7, Road No. Ng 8 and Road No. Jor and connecting roads under the Udon Thani city planning project. Land survey and appropriation shall commence within 180 days after the Royal Decree is in effect.
Title: Signing of Protocol on Criteria for Inspection, Quarantine and Veterinary Sanitation of Aquacultured Fish Products Exported to the People's Republic of China between Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives of the Kingdom of Thailand and General Administration of Customs of the People's Republic of China
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives:
Approved the signing of Protocol on Criteria for Inspection, Quarantine and Veterinary Sanitation of Aquacultured Fish Products Exported to the People's Republic of China between Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives of the Kingdom of Thailand and General Administration of Customs of the People's Republic of China. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist, Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet
Approved Minister of Agriculture and Cooperatives or a representative as signatory of the Protocol without the need for the Full Powers. The signing will take place on February 6, 2025 during the Prime Minister’s official visit to China
The Protocol shall enter into force on the date of its signature by the Parties and shall remain in force for a period of five years, to be automatically extended every five years, which may be terminated by either Party by written notification to the other Party.
Title: Draft MoUs between Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation and Chinese agencies
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation:
Approved 2 draft MoUs between Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation and Chinese agencies:
Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation of the Kingdom of Thailand and the China National Space Administration Concerming the Flight of the Moon Aiming Thai-Chinese Hodoscope (MATCH) Instrument on the Chang’e-7 Lunar Exploration Mission
Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation of the Kingdom of Thailand and the China Atomic Energy Authority for Cooperation in Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Technology
Approved Minister of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation or a representative as signatory of the 2 MoUs
Gist
Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation of the Kingdom of Thailand and the China National Space Administration Concerming the Flight of the Moon Aiming Thai-Chinese Hodoscope (MATCH) Instrument on the Chang’e-7 Lunar Exploration Mission prescribes agreement framework and terms of cooperation between the two parties regarding Flight of the Moon Aiming Thai-Chinese Hodoscope (MATCH) Instrument on the Chang’e-7 Lunar Exploration Mission.
Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation of the Kingdom of Thailand and the China Atomic Energy Authority for Cooperation in Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Technology prescribes promotion of cooperation and R&D in peaceful uses of nuclear energy and nuclear technology.
Title: Memorandum of Understanding on Promotion of Digital Economy Investment between Office of the Eastern Economic Corridor Policy Committee and Ministry of Commerce of People's Republic of China
The cabinet approved the draft Memorandum of Understanding on Promotion of Digital Economy Investment between Office of the Eastern Economic Corridor Policy Committee and Ministry of Commerce of People's Republic of China. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Office of the Eastern Economic Corridor Policy Committee may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Secretary General of the Office of the Eastern Economic Corridor Policy Committee or a representative is authorized as signatory of the MoU. This is as proposed by the Office of the Eastern Economic Corridor Policy Committee.
Gist
The draft Memorandum of Understanding on Promotion of Digital Economy Investment between Office of the Eastern Economic Corridor Policy Committee and Ministry of Commerce of People's Republic of China aims to promote cooperation in developing digital infrastructure and target industries in the digital sector within the Eastern Economic Corridor. Cooperation includes encouraging businesses to participate in digital transformation, developing networks and intelligently improving traditional infrastructure, as well as exchanging strategies, policies, regulations, rules and standards of the digital economy of both parties.
Title: Memorandum of Understanding on Promotion of Cooperation in Artificial Intelligence between Ministry of Digital Economy and Society of the Kingdom of Thailand and National Development and Reform Commission of People's Republic of China
The cabinet approved the draft Memorandum of Understanding on Promotion of Cooperation in Artificial Intelligence between Ministry of Digital Economy and Society of the Kingdom of Thailand and National Development and Reform Commission of People's Republic of China. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Digital Economy and Society may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Digital Economy and Society or a representative is authorized as signatory of the MoU. This is as proposed by the Ministry of Digital Economy and Society.
Gist
The draft Memorandum of Understanding on Promotion of Cooperation in Artificial Intelligence between Ministry of Digital Economy and Society of the Kingdom of Thailand and National Development and Reform Commission of People's Republic of China is aimed at promoting AI cooperation in 3 areas: 1) AI infrastructure; 2) AI technology; 3) Empowering through AI Applications; 4) Response to AI Security Risks; and 5) Enhancing public knowledge on AI.
Title: Outcome document of 28th ASEAN Labour Ministers’ Meeting (ALMM) and related meetings and request for approval of 28th ALMM Joint Communique and 13th ALMM+3 Joint Statement
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Labor:
Acknowledged outcome document of 28th ASEAN Labour Ministers’ Meeting (ALMM) and related meetings held in the Republic of Singapore on October 28-31, 2024
Approved 28th ALMM Joint Communique and 13th ALMM+3 (ASEAN Plus Three Labour Ministers’ Meeting) Joint Statement, and authorized Minister of Labor or a representative to adopt the documents. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Labor may proceed and inform the cabinet later of the amendment.
Gist
The 28th ASEAN Labour Ministers’ Meeting (ALMM) was held together with the 20th Senior Labour Officials’ Meeting (SLOM); 22nd SLOM+3; and 13th ASEAN Plus Three Labour Ministers’ Meeting (ALMM+3).
The 28th ALMM Joint Communique reiterates commitment of ASEAN Labour Ministers to address fundamental labour issues that pose both challenges and opportunities for the labour markets of ASEAN Member States. 13th ALMM+3 (ASEAN Plus Three Labour Ministers’ Meeting) Joint Statement prescribes cooperation of ASEAN Plus Three nations to promote labor and employment, competitiveness, skill development, and post-COVID-19 future workforce adaptability.
Title: Memorandum of Understanding on Promotion of Cooperation in Green Development Investment between Ministry of Energy of the Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Commerce of the People's Republic of China
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Energy:
Approved the draft Memorandum of Understanding on Promotion of Cooperation in Green Development Investment between Ministry of Energy of the Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Commerce of the People's Republic of China. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Energy may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
Authorized Minister of Foreign Affairs or a representative as signatory of the MoU
Gist
The draft Memorandum of Understanding on Promotion of Cooperation in Green Development Investment between Ministry of Energy of the Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Commerce of the People's Republic of China will upgrade investment cooperation between the two countries in clean energy, promote research and development of clean energy innovation and technology, as well as investment in clean energy businesses and green technology to achieve carbon neutrality together in the future.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/93511