รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand and U.S. affirm close cooperation in combating drug trafficking along border area


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 1 สิงหาคม 2567
01/08/2567
พิมพ์
Thailand and U.S. affirm close cooperation in combating drug trafficking along border area
Thailand and U.S. affirm close cooperation in combating drug trafficking along border area
July 31, 2024, at 1030hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Robert F. Godec, the United States Ambassador to Thailand, together with Ms. Roshni Nirody, Director of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs at the U.S. Embassy Bangkok, and Mr. Mark Snyder, Assistant Regional Director of Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin to discuss anti-narcotics cooperation. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister emphasized the Thai Government’s priority on combating illicit drugs to achieve tangible result within 90 days. July 30 marked the 60th day of the operation, and the Government has handed down a policy for Office of the Narcotics Control Board to expedite its anti-narcotics operation through collaboration with all concerned sectors. The Prime Minister added that Thailand would like to seek cooperation with the U.S. in its preventive operation against drugs smuggling along the border area.
The U.S. Ambassador commended the Prime Minister’s leading role in suppressing narcotics in the region, and expressed pleasure to share his country’s experiences and to strengthen anti-narcotics cooperation with Thailand through financial support, provision of necessary equipment, and personnel training.
Both parties were pleased with close and constant cooperation between Office of the Narcotics Control Board and U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA). The Ambassador reaffirmed U.S. commitment on anti-narcotics cooperation with Thailand. The country may also seek further cooperation with other related agencies, as well as Thailand’s neighboring countries, in a bid to combat drug trafficking along the border area in an efficient manner.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/86575