รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on January 24, 2023


วันจันทร์ที่ 30 มกราคม 2566
30/01/2566
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on January 24, 2023
The cabinet met on January 24, 2023. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Announcement of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment on Extension of Announcement of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment on Environmental Protection Zoning and Measures in Krabi province’s Ao Luek, Muang Krabi, Nua Khlong, Khlong Tom, Lanta Districts, B.E. 2559
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Announcement of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment on Extension of Announcement of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment on Environmental Protection Zoning and Measures in Krabi province’s Ao Luek, Muang Krabi, Nua Khlong, Khlong Tom, Lanta Districts, B.E. 2559, as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment. The Ministry is also instructed to take into account the comments of Ministry of Transport, and Office of National Economic and Social Development council.
Gist
The draft Announcement of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment prescribes extension of the Announcement of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment on Environmental Protection Zoning and Measures in Krabi province’s Ao Luek, Muang Krabi, Nua Khlong, Khlong Tom, Lanta Districts, B.E. 2559 for another 2 years from April 1, 2023 onward.
Title: Request for Government’s Contingency Fund for Emergency for Organizing General Election of MPs
The cabinet approved in principle the budget of 5,945,161,000 Baht for the Office of the Election Commission of Thailand (OECT) to organize and oversee the general election of members of the House of Representatives.
Gist
The approved budget will be allocated for:
1.       Expenses on activities related to organization and overseeing of the general election of members of the House of Representatives, to be carried out by OECT, for the total budget of 5,104,546,750 Baht. These activities include organizing the election, preparing staffs and personnel at all levels, and organizing by-election/voting to fill vacant seats in the House of Representatives upon orders of the Election Commission, etc.
2.       Expenses on activities related to organization and overseeing of the general election of members of the House of Representatives, to be carried out by 10 supporting agencies, for the total budget of 840,614,250 Baht. These activities include organizing overseas voting by Ministry of Foreign Affairs, maintaining security and orderliness by the Royal Thai Police, promoting awareness on general election by Ministry of Education, delivery of ballots, election equipment, and others by Thailand Post, Co., Ltd., etc.
Title: Acquisition of land for establishment of industrial estates in EEC and Lamphun province
The cabinet has made approval to the purchase of land for an establishment of industrial estates in the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC), and in Lamphun province. This is as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
Industrial estate development project in the EEC, located in Samnak Thong subdistrict, Muang district, Rayong, will be implemented with the approx. budget of 4,385 million Baht from the revenue and saving of Industrial Estate Authority of Thailand. Under the area of 1,482 rai, the project aims to attract investment in the S-Curve industries, i.e., next-generation automotive, aviation and logistics, smart electronics, biofuels and biochemicals, medical and healthcare, and industrial waste recycling, from Japanese investors, its main target group. It is expected that the industrial estate be sold out or rented out within 5 years after completion of construction, create employment of approx. 13,920 workers, and generate total product of 1,542.34 million Baht.
Industrial estate development project in Lamphun province, located in Makhua Jae and Ban Klang subdistricts, Muang district, Lamphun, will be implemented with the approx. budget of 2,160 million Baht from the revenue and saving of Industrial Estate Authority of Thailand. Under the area of 653 rai plus 25 rai of access road, the project aims to attract investment in electronics parts, jewelries, garment, food processing, and biotechnology from the Japanese investors as well. It is expected that the industrial estate be sold out or rented out within 5 years after completion of construction, create employment of approx. 8,415 workers, and generate total product of 277.85 million Baht.
The cabinet also instructed Industrial Estate Authority of Thailand (IEAT) to come up with a risk management plan in the case that some plots of the land could not be acquired as planned. If that is the case, IEAT may compare cost effectiveness between establishing new industrial estates and optimizing area in the existing estates.
Title: Memorandum of Understanding on Thailand - Turkiye Higher Education Cooperation approved by cabinet
The cabinet has made approval to the Memorandum of Understanding on Thailand - Turkiye Higher Education Cooperation to be signed between Thai Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation and Turkiye's Council of Higher Education.
Gist
The MOU prescribes exchange of academic and scientific cooperation, i.e., student and personnel training, short-term research project, exchange of educational media, workshop, seminar, and conference, between higher education institutions of the two countries. The MOU will take effect for 4 years, as proposed by Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation.
Aside from exchange of educational and technical cooperation, Thailand and Turkiye agreed upon educational accreditation in accordance with each other's related law, and exchange of scholarship recipients under the mutually agreed procedure. The two countries also came to terms to set up, implement, and develop joint curriculum for both undergraduate, graduate, and doctoral studies.
Deliberation of the draft MOU will be part of the agenda for the 4th meeting of joint committee on Thailand - Turkiye Academic and Economic Cooperation to be held during January 25-26, 2023 in Ankara, Republic of Turkiye. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Don Pramudwinai will lead the Thai delegation to attend the meeting.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/64332