รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM calls on member states to uphold ASEAN’s centrality and global relevance


วันอังคารที่ 27 พฤษภาคม 2568
27/05/2568
พิมพ์
​PM calls on member states to uphold ASEAN’s centrality and global relevance
​PM calls on member states to uphold ASEAN’s centrality and global relevance
May 26, 2025, at 1030hrs (Kuala Lumpur local time), Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed that Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra attended the 46th ASEAN Summit (Retreat) at Kuala Lumpur Convention Center (KLCC), Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. At the Retreat session, ASEAN leaders discussed various regional and global situations.
According to the Prime Minister, the meeting was held when the world is facing heightened geo-political tensions and geo-economic fragility and uncertainty. Strategic competition among major powers is intensifying, while global supply chains remain vulnerable, and confidence in multilateral institutions is waning.
In such a climate of growing unpredictability and fragmentation, ASEAN’s strategic relevance and interests rely on its ability to champion multilateralism and navigate the shifting geo-strategic dynamics. As major powers re-calibrate their positions, ASEAN must avoid being drawn into zero-sum rivalries. Instead, the region must diversify partnerships and continue to serve as a convening power that builds bridges and trust to ensure that dialogue prevails over division, and cooperation over confrontation.
The Prime Minister emphasized that this was the time when ASEAN must strengthen its centrality and unity, and maintain the relevance of ASEAN-led mechanisms in deepening cooperation, within the region and beyond. ASEAN needs to balance relations with major powers. To achieve this, strategic trust must be built by promoting inclusive dialogue and constructive engagement with and among our partners and fostering practical cooperation under the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific.
As an active promoter of peace and common prosperity, Thailand will work with all ASEAN colleagues and partners to ensure that ASEAN continues to be a responsible global player and a reliable partner for all.
On issues affecting our region, the Prime Minister was of the view that ASEAN must speak with one voice, take a principled stance, and stand firmly on core values. It is important that ASEAN has a united position on the U.S.’ reciprocal tariffs that we are ready to engage in a frank and constructive dialogue with the U.S.
In the context of major power rivalry, the South China Sea remains a potential flashpoint with serious implications for regional stability. Thailand calls on all parties to avoid provocative actions and work towards peaceful resolution of disputes between the parties directly concerned based on international law.
On the Middle East and Ukraine, Thailand joins the international community in calling for stepped up efforts towards an immediate ceasefire, full protection of civilians, and unimpeded humanitarian access to those in need, without discrimination or politicization.
According to the Prime Minister, for Thailand, restoring normalcy in Myanmar remains a top priority and a critical challenge that demands ASEAN’s continued leadership, unity and solidarity. The recent earthquake has worsened the suffering of affected communities and underscored the urgency of finding a sustainable solution to the political situation. Thailand fully supports Malaysia in engaging constructively with all stakeholders in Myanmar towards ceasefire extension and facilitating ASEAN’s collective support for relief, recovery, and reconstruction efforts.
Thailand will also continue engaging with Myanmar’s other immediate neighbors, in coordination with the ASEAN Chair, to promote border peace and security and combat transboundary crimes. This will complement ASEAN’s efforts in the implementation of the Five-Point Consensus.
Thailand believes that ASEAN has a vital role in shaping a peaceful, stable, inclusive, and sustainable region. The Prime Minister urged ASEAN member states to turn this moment of uncertainty into an opportunity to lead with unity, clarity of purpose, and the resolve to uphold ASEAN’s centrality and global relevance.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/96822