รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand – China to work together in tackling transnational crimes


วันศุกร์ที่ 7 กุมภาพันธ์ 2568
07/02/2568
พิมพ์
Thailand – China to work together in tackling transnational crimes
Thailand – China to work together in tackling transnational crimes
Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed that today (February 6, 2025) at 1000hrs (Beijing local time), at the Great Hall of the People, Beijing, People’s Republic of China, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra paid a courtesy call on President Xi Jinping on occasion of her official visit to the country during February 5-8, 2025.
The Prime Minister greeted the President with “Happy Chinese New Year”, and expressed her pleasure to have visited China on such a special year of the 50th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the two countries.
China is Thailand’s important economic partner and has been the country’s number one trading partner for 12 consecutive years. Chinese investors are also among top foreign investors in Thailand, with the total investment value of over USD100 billion. This reflects special relations, and the two countries will continue to forge relations and cooperation to pass on prosperity to the next generations for the next 50 years.
President Xi Jinping conveyed felicitations to His Majesty the King and Her Majesty the Queen. Throughout the past 50 years, Thailand and China have adhered to the principle of cooperation for shared prosperity. China has also supported Thailand’s role under both bilateral, multilateral, and regional frameworks, and would like to further expand cooperation in the development of high-speed train, digital economy, EEC special economic zone, and leveraging of economic cooperation between Thailand, Laos and China. The Thai private sector have also been well supported by the Chinese Government in all dimensions. The “China International Import Expo” is held annually, and Thai exhibitors and business operators are given chances to promote their products and services through the participation in this Chinese largest import-focused trade fair. Thailand and China have also started forging cooperation in military equipment through the submarine deal.
The Prime Minister mentioned about the cabinet’s approval, made on February 4, 2025, to implement the 2nd phase of the Thai-Chinese High-Speed Train Project, section Nakhon Ratchasima-Nong Khai. The Thai Government has also a policy for the State Railway of Thailand (SRT) to expand cooperation with the Chinese counterpart in other areas aside from rail cooperation.Additionally, Thailand has planned for a number of economic stimulus projects, i.e., the entertainment complex and Land Bridge projects, which could become new economic opportunities. The Prime Minister also proposed for concerned agencies of both countries to work together in developing common standard for customs checkpoint management in a bid to facilitate import of goods, especially agricultural products, which will benefit both the Thais and Chinese.
The Prime Minister affirmed that Thailand has placed utmost priority on public and tourist safety, and stands ready to work with China in a systematic manner to intercept and suppress criminal networks that use Thailand as route for committing crimes, frauds, and scams. She was also pleased that the two countries, together with other concerned countries in the region, agreed to work closely together in suppressing transnational crimes and call center scams.
President Xi Jinping added that China strongly supports crackdown of online scams, kidnapping, and human trafficking, which undermine the interests of the Chinese people. In the past, China has worked together with neighboring countries and local governments to crack down on drugs and has achieved success. He commended the Thai Government for its intensive and concrete effort in tackling transnational crime, especially the cutoff of water, electricity, and internet which could hinder the vicious cycle of criminal activities. He expressed hope that law enforcement authorities, both at the bilateral and sub regional levels, would prioritize safety and interest of people of the two countries in enforcing laws.
Thailand and China agreed to enhance people-to-people cooperation. Various activities will be organized to celebrate the 50th anniversary of diplomatic relations, which include temporary enshrinement of Beijing temple’s Buddha relics in Thailand, exhibitions of ancient artifacts, and a handover of giant pandas to Thailand. Exchanges between young people, scholarship provision, cultural exchange, and soft power have also been promoted to foster mutual learning and understanding between people of the two countries which will be passed on to the next generations.
The Prime Minister expressed delight that Thailand and China recognize the importance of cooperation in human resource development, especially in the future sectors, as “people” are the future of the Thai-Chinese relations. In addition, Thailand strives to promote and exchange cooperation on education, culture, and soft power to create strong foundation for the Thai-Chinese community with a shared future.
Both the leaders also came to terms to support each other’s role at the international stage, i.e., promoting the role of UN as center of global development cooperation for comprehensive economic cooperation, and endorsing ASEAN centrality. President Xi is also pleased with Thailand being accepted as BRICS partner country, and wished the Prime Minister’s success for this official visit to China. The Prime Minister also wished the 9th Asian Winter Games a success.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/93163