รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM chairs meeting of Economic Stimulus Policy Committee to approve economic stimulus project proposals


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 19 มิถุนายน 2568
19/06/2568
พิมพ์
PM chairs meeting of Economic Stimulus Policy Committee to approve economic stimulus project proposals
PM chairs meeting of Economic Stimulus Policy Committee to approve economic stimulus project proposals
June 18, 2025, at 1400hrs, at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra chaired the 3/2025 meeting of the Economic Stimulus Policy Committee. Participating in the meeting were Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense Phumtham Wechayachai, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Transport Suriya Jungrungreangkit, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Anutin Charnvirakul, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Pichai Chunhavajira, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Digital Economy and Society Prasert Jantararuangtong, Minister Attached to the Prime Minister’s Office Chousak Sirinil, Minister Attached to the Prime Minister’s Office Jiraporn Sindhuprai, Minister of Tourism and Sports Sorawong Thienthong, Minister of Commerce Pichai Naripthaphan, Deputy Minister of Finance Julapun Amornvivat, Deputy Minister of Finance Paopoom Rojanasakul, permanent secretaries and chiefs of ministry-level agencies and equivalent officials, and representatives of relevant agencies. Deputy Government Spokesperson Sasikarn Watthanachan disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed concern prior to the meeting over the economic growth rate which is subpar. Public and private investment-to-GDP ratio is also low, resulting in structural problem of the Thai economy. She stressed that there is a need for urgent solutions to the problem to strengthen and recover national economy.
On May 20, 2025, the cabinet has made approval to the 157-billion-baht economic stimulus plan, as proposed by the Ministry of Finance, to boost national economy. From then on, Government agencies have proposed various economic stimulus projects to be funded by the said budget. These projects were submitted to the subcommittee for screening of economic stimulus projects chaired by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Pichai Chunhavajira, and have been forwarded to the Economic Stimulus Policy Committee for deliberation.
The Prime Minister called on the committee members to carefully and scrupulously evaluate these project proposals to ensure that they are transparent, accountable, and in accordance with relevant laws and regulations, especially the Fiscal Discipline Act and the Budget Procedure Act. This is in order to engender both short and long-term benefits to the country’s economy and the people.
According to the Deputy Government Spokesperson, the meeting acknowledged the cabinet’s resolution on the 157-billion-baht economic stimulus plan, and the outcomes of the 5th – 9th meetings of the subcommittee for screening of economic stimulus projects.
The meeting also acknowledged screening criteria, approved project proposals that meet the set criteria, and assigned Ministry of Finance to propose the approved projects to the cabinet for approval.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/97626