รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Bangkok named best city in Asia Pacific


วันศุกร์ที่ 29 มีนาคม 2567
29/03/2567
พิมพ์
​Bangkok named best city in Asia Pacific
​Bangkok named best city in Asia Pacific
March 25, 2024, Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed that Thailand continues to be a popular destination for tourists across the world, following an announcement of the DestinAsian, a travel and lifestyle magazine focused on the Asia-Pacific region, on its 17th annual Readers’ Choice Awards (https://destinasian.com/readers-choice-awards/2024-winners/best-cities) which named Bangkok as the region’s best city, followed by Tokyo, Singapore, Kuala Lumpur, Hong Kong, Seoul, Sydney, Shanghai, Taipei, and Ho Chi Minh City.
DestinAsian’s Readers’ Choice Awards has annually given its readers the chance to cast their votes and recognize the best destinations in the Asia-Pacific region under various categories, including best cities, islands, hotels and resorts, airlines, airports, and cruise lines. Under the best island category, Thailand’s Phuket and Koh Samui ranks 3rd, and 4th respectively. Top 2 islands according to DestinAsian’s 17th annual Readers’ Choice Awards are Bali and Maldives.
Suvarnabhumi International Airport ranks 2nd under the best airport category, which is topped by Singapore Changi Airport. Hong Kong International Airport ranks 3rd.
As for the best airline category, THAI Airways International ranks 3rd behind Singapore Airlines and Emirates. The best low-cost airline goes to Air Asia, followed by Bangkok Airways.
According to the Government Spokesperson, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin has placed great importance on the development of tourism industry through implementation of various measures, i.e., visa-free scheme, revision of related rules and regulations, and tourist safety provision, in a bid to boost their confidence. The Government also sets tourism as one of the eight areas to be promoted under Thailand Vision 2030, which includes also tourism-related industries, i.e., logistics and aviation, food, and wellness & medical. The Government Spokesperson added that the Government commits to promote Thai tourism to ensure that the country remains a popular tourist destination among the global community.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/81046