รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on January 31, 2023


วันอังคารที่ 7 กุมภาพันธ์ 2566
07/02/2566
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on January 31, 2023
The cabinet met on January 31, 2023. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Bangkok (Bang Bon district’s Bang Bon Tai subdistrict), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Bangkok (Bang Bon district’s Bang Bon Tai subdistrict), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Interior. Ministry of Interior shall take comments of Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, Office of National Economic and Social Development Council, and Official of Council of State into consideration.
Gist
The Royal Decree prescribes areas in Bangkok (Bang Bon district’s Bang Bon Tai subdistrict) to be expropriated for construction and expansion of a local road (Soi Ekachai 101) to facilitate traffic flow. Land survey and appropriation shall commence within 120 days after the Royal Decree is in effect.
Title: Draft Announcement of Ministry of Commerce on prescription of sand as export prohibited goods, B.E. …
The cabinet has made approval to the Announcement of Ministry of Commerce on prescription of sand as export prohibited goods, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Commerce, to reserve sand, which is an important natural resource, for domestic use in industrial sector.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Announcement prescribes revision of measures to ban sand export and revocation of export control for mineral sands. Detail is as follows:
1)       Prescribing natural sands of all kinds, whether or not colored, other than metal-bearing sands, as export prohibited goods. They are: 1.1. silica sand (mostly found at beaches and seaside, and used in glass and ceramic industries), and quartz sands (high-quality silica sand with great heat resistance, which is normally used in heat-resistant industry, water filter production, reinforced concrete and materials); and 1.2. other kinds of sand.
2)       Exception is made in the case of: 2.1. export as sample products or for research purposes, or for personal use (not over 2 kg.); or 2.2. sand being delivered in a vehicle for use in that particular vehicle (quantity of sand to be in accordance with related international obligations), i.e., for making a ship balanced and stable, and for preventing and extinguishing fire on board a ship under the Safety Of Life At Sea (SOLAS) Convention, 1974.
Title: Draft documents to be adopted at the 26th Meeting of ASEAN Tourism Ministers (26th M-ATM)
The cabinet approved the proposal made by Ministry of Tourism and Sports as follows:
Approved 5 documents to be adopted at the 26th Meeting of ASEAN Tourism Ministers (26th M-ATM)
Joint Statement of 26th M-ATM
Joint Statement of 22nd M-ATM+3 (China, Japan and Korea)
Joint Statement of 10th M-ATM+India
Joint Statement of 2nd M-ATM+Russia
Cooperation Work Program on Tourism between ASEAN and India (2023-2027)
Approved for Permanent Secretary to Ministry of Tourism and Sports (representing Minister of Tourism and Sports) to attend the 26th M-ATM and related meetings as Thailand’s ASEAN Tourism Minister, and to adopt and endorse outcome documents without signing.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/64610