รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM meets with U.S. Ambassador to Thailand


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 17 ตุลาคม 2567
17/10/2567
พิมพ์
​PM meets with U.S. Ambassador to Thailand
​PM meets with U.S. Ambassador to Thailand
October 15, 2024, at 1400hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Mr. Robert F. Godec, Ambassador of the United States of America to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra. Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister commended relations and cooperation between Thailand and the U.S. which have progressed in wide-ranging dimensions, and committed to further strengthen bilateral relations between the two countries. She also expressed her condolences over the damages and losses caused by Hurricanes Helene and Milton. Thailand shared the pain as the country has been hard hit by flood disaster.
The U.S. Ambassador affirmed his country’s commitment to reinforce cooperation between Thailand and the U.S. as the two countries are each other’s important strategic partner. He noted that the Prime Minister has met and has had discussion with U.S. Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken during the ASEAN Summit held in Lao PDR. This also reflects strong relations between the two countries.
Both parties also discussed issues of mutual interest:
On flood management, the Prime Minister thanked the U.S. for its assistance provided to flood-affected victims in the North. Thailand would be pleased if the U.S. could share its technology and expertise on flood-risk mitigation. She also hoped to leverage the Mekong-U.S. partnership framework to further deepen cooperation on water management. The U.S., through the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), stands ready to work with the Thai Red Cross to provide assistance, and to utilize satellite technology for flood management and response in Thailand.
Both parties also came to terms on promoting investment cooperation, especially in semiconductor and other technologies, i.e., cyber security and AI. The U.S. Ambassador informed the Prime Minister that a number of U.S. leading firms have expressed interest in expanding their investment in Thailand. A delegation of businessmen from the US-ASEAN Business Council (USABC) will visit Thailand to further strengthen trade relations between the two countries.
The Prime Minister revealed her commitment to develop education and enhance the opportunity of Thai youths in obtaining scholarships/exchange programs to study abroad, especially to the U.S. The U.S. Ambassador endorsed the idea, and added that there were some ongoing projects that connect Thai universities with the U.S. counterparts for scholarship provision. Leading technology firms, such as Apple, and Microsoft, have also launched digital skill development projects in Thailand.
The U.S. Ambassador commended the Prime Minister for her active role at the regional and global stages, especially the restoration of peace and stability in Myanmar, and affirmed his country’s readiness to work together with Thailand in bringing back peace to Myanmar, as well as in responding to other global issues, i.e., the South China Sea, and the Middle East conflict. Thailand and the U.S. committed to support each other’s constructive role and to work together in promoting peace and stability at the regional and global levels.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/89186