รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Nalinee Taveesin, adviser to the prime minister of Thailand, will lead a delegation of Thai businessmen for a tour of Bangladesh from 13 to 17 July


วันศุกร์ที่ 12 กรกฎาคม 2567
​Nalinee Taveesin, adviser to the prime minister of Thailand, will lead a delegation of Thai businessmen for a tour of Bangladesh from 13 to 17 July
to explore business opportunities.
The visit is an outcome of the discussion between H.E. Mr. Srettha Thavisin, Prime Minister of Thailand and Sheikh Hasina, Prime Minister of Bangladesh during the latter’s official visit to Thailand from 24 to 29 April.
Nalinee Taveesin will pay a courtesy call on the foreign minister of Bangladesh and visit sites that demonstrate the efforts of Bangladesh in promoting infrastructure and investment potential such as Bangladesh Special Economic Zone in Araihazar, Chittagong Port Authority, Sabrang Tourism Park in Teknaf and Korea Export Processing Zone.
Nalinee will be accompanied by representatives from 14 Thai prominent companies in various segments including energy, industrial park, agro-industry and real estate. The Thai embassy will organise a business matching session on 14 July in collaboration with the Bangladesh-Thai Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
Bangladesh is Thailand’s second largest trading partner and source of tourist in South Asia. In 2023, the trade volume was around $1.18 billion. Around 140,000 Bangladeshis visited Thailand in the same period. Both sides have signed a Letter of Intent to start the negotiation for a free trade agreement within this year. Bangladesh will host the 6th Joint Trade Committee between Thailand and Bangladesh in August 2024 to discuss cooperation to facilitate bilateral trade and boost its volume.
Nalinee is former Minister Attached to the Prime Minister’s Office. During the official visit of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina to Thailand in April 2024, Mrs. Nalinee represented the Royal Thai Government in seeing off Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina upon her departure at the airport. Thailand Trade Representative is a ministerial rank position appointed by the Prime Minister

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/85744