รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​​PM welcomes BIMSTEC Foreign Ministers


วันจันทร์ที่ 17 กรกฎาคม 2566
​​PM welcomes BIMSTEC Foreign Ministers
​​PM welcomes BIMSTEC Foreign Ministers
July 17, 2023, at 14.00 hrs, at the Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, the group of BIMSTEC (Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation) Foreign Ministers paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of their visit to Thailand to attend the BIMSTEC Foreign Ministers’ Retreat. Deputy Government Spokesperson Ratchada Thanadirek disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed and thanked all the BIMSTEC ministers for attending the BIMSTEC Foreign Ministers’ Retreat which was successfully hosted by Thailand. He hoped that the meeting outcomes would be built upon to further enhance BIMSTEC’s relevance and visibility at the international stage. Thailand has been preparing for the 6th BIMSTEC Summit and related meetings, to be held on November 27-30, 2023. He called on other BIMSTEC Member States to support Thailand throughout its BIMSTEC chairmanship.
As BIMSTEC chair, Thailand has been working closely with all Member States towards realizing the vision for Prosperous, Resilient, Open BIMSTEC or “PRO BIMSTEC” in: 1) economic dimension, that is, to promote comprehensive connectivity and accelerate poverty alleviation through trade and investment, and environmental conservation; 2) security dimension: to strengthen regional security through promoting food and public health security, and maritime cooperation; and 3) participatory dimension: to promote sustainable tourism and create people-to-people network.
The group of BIMSTEC Foreign Ministers:
1. H.E. Dr. Abulkalam Abdul Momen
Minister of Foreign Affairs of Bangladesh
2. H.E. Dr. Tandi Dorji
Minister of Foreign Affairs of Bhutan
3. H.E. Dr. Subrahmanyam Jaishankar
Minister of External Affairs of India
4. H.E. Mr. Than Swe
Union Minister for Foreign Affairs of Myanmar
5. H.E. Mr. Narayan Prakash Saud
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Nepal
6. H.E. Mr. Ali Sabry
Minister of Foreign Affairs of Sri Lanka
7. H.E. Tenzin Lekphell
Secretary General of BIMSTEC

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/70432