รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Govt invites private and business sectors, and researchers to TRIUP (Thailand Research and Innovation Utilization Promotion)  FAIR 2023


วันอังคารที่ 18 กรกฎาคม 2566
18/07/2566
พิมพ์
​Govt invites private and business sectors, and researchers to TRIUP (Thailand Research and Innovation Utilization Promotion)  FAIR 2023
​Govt invites private and business sectors, and researchers to TRIUP (Thailand Research and Innovation Utilization Promotion)  FAIR 2023
July 17, 2023, Deputy Government Spokesperson Traisuree Taisaranakul disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha has placed great importance on R&D spin-off to utilize commercial benefit of research results, innovation, and technology, emanated from academic institutions/research institutes. The Government has developed infrastructure to accommodate the R&D spin-off including enactment of Science, Research, and Innovation Promotion Act, B.E. 2562, and Thailand Research and Innovation Utilization Promotion Act (TRIUP Act), B.E. 2564, as well as their subordinate legislations, e.g., Prime Minister's Office Regulations on joint investment between public and private sectors in projects that utilize research and innovations, B.E..., which was approved by the cabinet on July 11, 2023.
Aside from the development of legal infrastructure, the Government strives to create meeting spaces between researchers, business sector, and those who are interested in a bid to increase opportunities for utilizing commercial benefit of research results.
Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation’s Office of Thailand Science Research and Innovation will organize the TRIUP FAIR 2023 in collaboration with its partners and the private sector (i.e., Federation of Thai Industries, Thai Chamber of Commerce and Board of Trade of Thailand). The event is held during July 18-19, 2023, at the Royal Paragon Hall, Paragon Department Store. The Government would like to encourage business operators, investors, researchers, academicians, students, and those who are interested to attend the TRIUP FAIR 2023, which features over 300 research outputs and innovations to be utilized for commercial benefit. The Fair will also provide one-stop startups supporting activities, forums, workshops, and pitching activities for knowledge exchange and business collaboration, as well as services related to intellectual property and innovation registration, advising services on marketing and export, and Thai innovation product shopping cart.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/70471