รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM: Thailand’s hosting of APEC 2022 is a success​


วันอาทิตย์ที่ 20 พฤศจิกายน 2565
​PM: Thailand’s hosting of APEC 2022 is a success​
​PM: Thailand’s hosting of APEC 2022 is a success​
November 19, 2022, at 12.20 hrs, at the Queen Sirikit National Convention Center, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha gave a debriefing to the press as chair of APEC Economies. Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the debriefing as follows:
First of all, the Prime Minister expressed profound gratitude toward the royal benevolence of His Majesty the King and Her Majesty the Queen for granting an audience to APEC Economic Leaders and spouses, and special guests at the Chakri Maha Prasat Throne Hall in the Grand Palace on Friday night, which has brought sincere appreciation and joy to the delegates and all the Thai people.
The Prime Minister affirmed that the 29th APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting has ended with a success. This is a shared accomplishment of all APEC economic members to work together for the future and growth of the Asia-Pacific region. Throughout last week, Thailand had an honor to welcome over 5,000 guests, which include the heads of state and the delegation, participants, and foreign press correspondents, to the first physical APEC meeting in four years.
The 29th APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting was not only a stage for APEC Economic Leaders to wrap up the discussions in the region on collective action in the recovery process and way forward, it was also an opportunity to exchange views with special guests, namely, President Emmanuel Macron of France, and His Royal Highness, and Crown Prince and Prime Minister of Saudi Arabia Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, and with APEC Business Advisory Council (ABAC). The Prime Minister also had a chance to listen to the youths under APEC Voices of the Future 2022 program.
The meeting also raised concern over the issue of nuclear threat. Thailand, as host of APEC, understands the concern and its impact against the economic situation, and stands ready to cooperate with partners to closely monitor and address the issue.
The Prime Minister and APEC Economic Leaders also adopted the 2022 Leaders' Declaration which highlights APEC works in 2022 that have been driven by Bio-Circular-Green (BCG) Economy under the APEC theme “Open. Connect. Balance.”
1. Open.: APEC welcomes advancement of the Free Trade Area of the Asia-Pacific (FTAAP). The momentum will be continued towards high quality and comprehensive regional undertakings through the FTAAP Agenda Work Plan. APEC will also cooperate to address existing and emerging global trade challenges
2. Connect.: APEC will further cooperation to promote safe and seamless cross-border travel within the region in responses against future threats
3. Balance.: APEC Economic leaders endorsed the Bangkok Goals on the Bio-Circular-Green (BCG) Economy as a comprehensive framework to further APEC’s sustainability objectives, and drive forward Asia-Pacific economy in an inclusive, sustainable, and environmental-friendly manner. The website: bangkokgoals.apec.org has also been launched.
Thailand’s hosting of APEC 2022 has come to an end, and the country has handed over APEC AELM Chairing to the United States. The Prime Minister expressed confidence that the issues of sustainability and inclusivity as reflected in the Bangkok Goals on BCG Economy would be continued next year under priorities of the United States’ APEC host year.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/61798