รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM calls on BYD to protect and consider local consumers' expectation on product pricing


วันศุกร์ที่ 5 กรกฎาคม 2567
PM calls on BYD to protect and consider local consumers' expectation on product pricing
PM calls on BYD to protect and consider local consumers' expectation on product pricing
July 5, 2024, at 1030hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin met with Mr. Wang Chuanfu, chairman and CEO of BYD Company. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister thanked BYD for having confidence and investing in Thailand which helps invigorate the Thai economy. He called on BYD to: 1) use more of Thailand’s supply chain; 2) manufacture their products at full capacity as agreed upon; and 3) take into account consumers' expectation in terms of product pricing, and properly protect local consumers.
Mr. Wang Chuanfu expressed appreciation on the Prime Minister’s advices, and affirmed the company’s confidence on the potential of the Thai market.
BYD has been using more of Thailand’s supply chain than required. Several automobile parts are also produced domestically using new technologies. Current production capacity of the BYD factory in Thailand is 150,000 vehicles per year. It will take 2 years to manufacture at full capacity. In addition to domestic sales, the company has a policy to export BYD cars to other ASEAN countries, i.e., Indonesia and Vietnam.
With regard to car prices, BYD chairman and CEO affirmed the company’s policy on appropriate future pricing to ensure the least impact on market adjustment. The company would also seek proper remedies to affected customers.
BYD chairman and CEO emphasized the company’s confidence on Thailand’s potential as a growing automobile market, and has planned for investment expansion which means more jobs will be available. BYD employees will be trained on new knowhows and technologies. He also extended his invitation for the Prime Minister to visit BYD factory at an appropriate occasion.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/85473