รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM approves medical funding to assist foreign tourists in case of accidents while travelling in Thailand


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 22 กุมภาพันธ์ 2567
22/02/2567
พิมพ์
PM approves medical funding to assist foreign tourists in case of accidents while travelling in Thailand
PM approves medical funding to assist foreign tourists in case of accidents while travelling in Thailand
February 22, 2024, Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed that other than tourism promotion to attract foreign travelers, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin has also placed great importance on safety of the tourists. He wants to elevate safety standard under the “Safe Thailand” scheme, and approved the implementation of the “Assistance Scheme for Foreign Tourist Injury and Casualty” program, initiated by Ministry of Tourism and Sports, in a bid to assure tourist safety and boost tourist confidence in Thailand, as well as to enhance national competitiveness, uplift Thai tourism industry, and increase the nation’s tourism revenues.
According to the Government Spokesperson, Ministry of Tourism and Sports was approved in principle to utilize the Government’s contingency fund for emergency (the total budget framework of 50 million Baht) to implement the “Assistance Scheme for Foreign Tourist Injury and Casualty” program. The allocated budget will be used to provide relief to foreign tourists on a case-by-case basis in the event of accidents, crimes, and other unfortunate events or disasters occurred during January 1 and August 31, 2024. The compensation rate in the case of death is up to 1 million Baht. In the case of permanent organ loss, loss of sight, or permanent disability, a payment of 300,000 Baht will be given. In the case of accident injuries, actual medical expenses will not exceed 500,000 Baht.
Ministry of Tourism and Sports also set up the “Thailand Traveler Safety” (TTS) system via https://www.tts.go.th/ where foreign tourists can register online prior to their entry into the Kingdom for the protection and coverage. The data will, then, be initially screened by the Ministry, the Tourist Police, and National Institute for Emergency Medicine (NIEM). The “Assistance Scheme for Foreign Tourist Injury and Casualty” program will only be available for foreign tourists who enter Thailand for tourism purpose, and whose injury or casualty is not caused by tourists’ carelessness, intention to commit illegal acts, or circumstances that risk causing the incident.
The Government Spokesperson added that it is the Prime Minister’s policy to ensure safety of foreign tourists, and to push forward Thailand to become world’s leading tourist destination with quality that meets the international standard.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/79318