รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM pleased with her attendance at 44th and 45th ASEAN Summits and related summits


วันเสาร์ที่ 12 ตุลาคม 2567
PM pleased with her attendance at 44th and 45th ASEAN Summits and related summits
PM pleased with her attendance at 44th and 45th ASEAN Summits and related summits
October 11, 2024, at 1430hrs, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra gave an interview to disclose overall success of her attendance at the 44th and 45th ASEAN Summits and related summits held in Vientiane, Lao PDR during October 9-11, 2024.
According to the Prime Minister, she and Singaporean leader who were both new to the meetings, were warmly welcomed by leaders of other member states. At the summits, overall picture of cooperation was discussed, with the aim to increase economic opportunities and identify investment cooperation strategies.
The Prime Minister attended more than 20 meetings during her attendance at the 44th and 45th ASEAN Summits and related summits, during which a number of key issues were raised and discussed, i.e., connectivity, tourism (increase of direct flightsand free visa), water management, soft power, people-to-people relations, and human security (food security, and green energy).
The Prime Minister added that all countries came to terms on maintaining regional peace. On the Myanmar situation, Thailandcommitted to play a more proactive role to help bring back peace in Myanmar.
The Prime Minister also had bilateral discussion with leaders of 12 countries, all of whom expressed support on the “6 Countries 1 Destination” scheme, as well as addressing transboundary problems, water management, and climate change. In her meeting with the Australian Prime Minister, the Prime Minister discussed exchange of technologies. Thailand would like to learn from Australia’s experience and expertise on disaster management. A working group will later be set up for this purpose. She added that the year 2025 was announced as “Golden Year of Friendship” to celebrate the 50th anniversary of diplomatic relations between Thailand and China. Various activities will be held throughout the year to commemorate the occasion.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/89046