รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand commits to enhance relations in all dimensions towards closer partnership


วันจันทร์ที่ 11 มีนาคม 2567
11/03/2567
พิมพ์
Thailand commits to enhance relations in all dimensions towards closer partnership
Thailand commits to enhance relations in all dimensions towards closer partnership
March 11, 2024, at 1310hrs (Paris local time), at Palais de l’Elysée, Paris, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin and H.E. Mr. Emmanuel Macron, President of the Republic of France, chaired the joint press conference, gist of which is as follows:
The Prime Minister thanked for the warm welcome, and congratulated France’s hosting of the Paris 2024 Summer Olympics. Thailand and France have had historical ties, and have shared common position and vision on administration of state affairs in many respects. These are important foundations that form a strategic partnership between the two countries :
First: Close and longstanding relations between Thailand and France date back more than 300 years. The year 2025 will mark the 340th anniversary of the first contact between Siam and France, and the 170th anniversary of Thai - French diplomatic relations will be celebrated in 2026.
Second: Thailand and France uphold similar international values, promoting democracy, human rights, and gender equality, and providing humanitarian assistance to those in distress.
Third: Both Thailand and France have shared position in maintaining global peace, stability, and security. Thailand has played an important role in the ASEAN region under the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific (AOIP), whereas the EU Strategy for cooperation in the Indo-Pacific has paved ways for EU, including France, to have the more constructive interaction in the region, thereby, promoting strategic balance amidst the great power competition.
Both the Prime Minister and the French President came to terms that international cooperation on the basis of respect to sovereignty and territorial integrity of States, international laws, humanitarian law, and the UN Charter will help resolve the current conflicts, and
Four: The Thai and French Governments have shared vision to build a more sustainable and resilient economy while taking into account the digital and green transition.
The Prime Minister mentioned Thailand Vision 2030 to make the country the region’s industrial hub in eight sectors, namely, tourism, wellness and medical, agriculture and food, aviation, regional logistics, future automotive manufacturing, digital economy, and finance. He extended his invitation for France to partner with Thailand in the following sectors:
Partnership in future automotive manufacturing, aviation, and regional logistics: Thailand sets a goal to become the region’s EV manufacturing hub under its 30@30 policy, and stands ready to discuss cooperation with France in automobiles, clean energy, and aviation and logistics. He also invited France’s leading port management firms to consider investment in Thailand’s Landbridge project.
The Prime Minister also commended Paris Pact for People and the Planet or the “4P Initiative” with its goal being “A world where poverty is eliminated and the planet preserved”. The 4P Initiative’s principle in scaling up of private capital flows to support transition to a low-carbon economy is in line with Thailand’s policy in lowering carbon emission to become a low-carbon society.
Economic, trade and investment partnership: Thailand and France are each other’s important trade and investment partner. The Prime Minister expressed confidence that mutual trade and investment value will significantly increase if the negotiation of Thailand-EU FTA be finalized by 2025. Thailand also submitted a letter of intent to become an OECD member in hope to be recognized for its global economic standard which will help attract trade and investment to the country.
Thailand also hopes to collaborate with France’s leading fashion institutes in developing raw materials and design techniques for Thai silk and fabrics, and with French brand names and department stores in importing Thai fashions to the French market. The country also aspires for promotion of Thai films at the Cannes Film Festival.
Partnership in defense industry: The Prime Minister proposed joint investment and technology transfer for Thailand to become the region’s production base and maintenance hub of military equipment.
The Prime Minister added that he has met with executives of over 20 France’s leading firms in the fields of automobiles, aviation, clean energy, fashion, sports, hospitality, and tourism, to explore business opportunity between the two countries. Thailand is home to the largest French community in the ASEAN region, and is the 2nd most popular long-distant tourist destination among the French people. Over 200,000 Thai tourists traveling in France are also considered quality tourists with high spending power. He, therefore, hoped that France takes into consideration an exemption of the Schengen visa to Thai nationals in a bid to promote tourism activities between the two countries. He also affirmed Thailand’s commitment to forge close and comprehensive partnership with France during the next several decades.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/80168