รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Opening Keynote “Better Infrastructures in an Age of Risk, Scarcity and Emergency”


วันอังคารที่ 12 มีนาคม 2567
12/03/2567
พิมพ์
Opening Keynote “Better Infrastructures in an Age of Risk, Scarcity and Emergency”
H.E. Mr. Srettha Thavisin,
Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand
on 12 March 2024 at 11.10 - 11.30 hrs.
Good morning. Thank you for the kind introduction. It is a pleasure to be here today to kick off this event.
Today's event highlights our shared interest in and the significance of infrastructure development, a key priority for Thailand. I'm excited to contribute my experience and vision to this important discussion.
[Importance of Infrastructure to Economic Development]
One of the central goals of my government is to foster equality through economic growth. We firmly believe that infrastructure is at the heart of enabling progress and access across all sectors of the economy.
Time and again, we have witnessed that well-executed infrastructure projects can lead to immense economic and social benefits not only for those living in major cities but also opportunities for everyone everywhere.
For example, in Thailand, our most recent mega infrastructure project was 18 years ago with the opening of Suvarnabhumi International Airport in Bangkok. This significantly widened the gate to Thailand.
In the decade prior to the airport's completion, we saw the number of visitors grow by 71%. However, the decade afterwards saw a growth of almost 110%. Over the years, this has enabled us to become a top global travel destination.
From this, we have learned the vital importance of infrastructure and its far-reaching impact, benefiting not just tourism but also multidimensional industries including real estate.
In this age of risk, scarcity, and emergency, having resilient and sustainable infrastructure is invaluable. It keeps us connected and serves as a crucial backbone for our society.
As many of you might know, before becoming Prime Minister, I spent nearly four decades in the real estate industry. I understand first-hand the crucial role infrastructure plays in driving economic growth including the real estate sector.
So today, I would like to share with you my government’s vision and our upcoming major infrastructure investments which will make Thailand the logistics hub of Southeast Asia.
[Aviation Hub]
First, we plan to turn Thailand into the main regional aviation hub within this decade.
Geographically situated in the heart of Indochina, Thailand holds a strategic position where major cities across Asia are within a 4 to 6-hour flight.
With Bangkok alone welcoming over 60 million passengers annually, we aspire to further expand our capacity to accommodate even more travelers.
Plans are in place to expand existing airports and construct new ones. A notable project is the expansion of Suvarnabhumi International Airport to add new terminals and build 2 more runways. Once completed, the airport will be able to handle 150 million passengers yearly, more than double of what we handle today.
Additionally, we will also build two new airports -- one in the north and one in the south. The Lanna International Airport will serve as a second airport to the bustling tourism industry in Chiang Mai and other northern provinces. Meanwhile, the Andaman International Airport in Phang-nga, close to Phuket, will complement the long-haul hub in southern Thailand. Together, these new airports will accommodate an additional 40 million passengers annually.
In addition to new infrastructure, we also have plans to improve the services for every visitor who goes through our airports. This includes:
o Improving ground operation processes and capacity to shorten the wait time for inbound and outbound passengers.
o Expanding and reallocating landing and take-off slots to make it more suitable and convenient for international passengers.
o Reducing landing fees and increasing delay fees to increase turnover and accommodate more flights.
o Improving safety standards for both ground operations and airside operations.
o Increasing flight frequency and new routes to Thailand, and much more.
With these large investments in infrastructure and services, I believe Thailand is well-positioned to lead the region as its aviation hub.
[Landbridge Project]
Another mega project we are undertaking is the Landbridge Project – the cornerstone of maritime connectivity in the Indo-Pacific.
Today we face a huge risk by solely relying on the Malacca Strait to travel between the Indian and the Pacific Oceans. Currently, 25% of the world's cargos flows through this narrow strait.
Each year, 90,000 vessels have to navigate through this already congested waterway, resulting in slow-moving traffic and significant queuing. Consequently, shipping cargos through the Malacca Strait is expected to face more problems in the near future.
Under the plan, roads and high-speed rails will connect two deep-sea ports, cutting across southern Thailand and providing an alternative connecting point between the two oceans.
This project is not only important from a commercial standpoint, but is also critical in maintaining global trade and supply chain stability amidst global geopolitical uncertainties.
One stark example is the ongoing unrest in the Red Sea, which has disrupted global shipping operations adding weeks to voyages and escalating shipping costs.
We are confident that our Landbridge project will be a success and a proud jewel of Southeast Asia, especially with Thailand as a neutral party, our Landbridge will always be open to everyone.
[Green Energy Infrastructure]
Finally, we cannot discuss the future of infrastructure without discussing renewable energy. We need to transition from a fossil fuel-based economy, to one that relies primarily on renewable and clean energy, and we need to do it now.
Some people might see this transition as a burden, but we see it as an immense opportunity.
Over the past six months, as I traveled the world and discussed with world and business leaders, it is clear that most major projects and investments from now on will require affordable and reliable access to renewable energy.
Over the past few years, we have heavily invested to ensure that Thailand will achieve the ambitious target of having 50% of our energy production be renewable by 2040.
We are also among the first nations to launch a “Utility Green Tariff” scheme. This ensures that anyone who invests in Thailand will have access to renewable energy in the years to come.
As you can see, our ambitious infrastructure projects are pivotal not only for Thailand's economic growth, but also for our commitment to sustainability and equitable development.
Together, we're not just building infrastructure; we're forging connections that bridge economies and peoples, shaping a sustainable and prosperous future. I am very excited about the partnerships and innovations this journey will bring.
As you go through the workshop today, think about how you can get involved to turn these ambitious visions into reality, making Thailand a model of progress and sustainability.
Thank you.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/80236