รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM to attend 2024 ASEAN-Australia Special Summit on March 4-6


วันจันทร์ที่ 4 มีนาคม 2567
04/03/2567
พิมพ์
​PM to attend 2024 ASEAN-Australia Special Summit on March 4-6
​PM to attend 2024 ASEAN-Australia Special Summit on March 4-6
March 3, 2024, Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed that Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisinis scheduled to attend the 2024 ASEAN-Australia Special Summit during March 4-6, 2024 to celebrate 50 years since Australia became ASEAN's first Dialogue Partner.
With his attendance at the 2024 ASEAN-Australia Special Summit, the Prime Minister strives to promote investment cooperation with Australia for economic development of Thailand and the region, and to attract more investment from Australia and vice versa. This is in line with Australia’s “Invested: Southeast Asia Economic Strategy to 2040”, a practical roadmap aiming to significantly increase two-way trade and investment, in recognition that Australia's prosperity and security is linked to the region. The Prime Minister will also take the opportunity to promote the Government’s key policies, especially the Landbridge project and the development of EV ecosystem.
The Prime Minister will also endorse cooperation between Australia and ASEAN in reducing regional conflict by peaceful means, and promoting regional stability and development through the constructive engagement of Australia - the United Kingdom - the United States (AUKUS) and Quadrilateral Security Dialogue (Quad), of which Australia is a member.
Thailand will also ensure that cooperation under the ASEAN-Australia framework benefits the country in a tangible manner, especially an access to funding support of 225 million Australian Dollar from the Australian Government through the Australia for ASEAN (Aus4ASEAN) Initiatives. So far, the Aus4ASEAN has provided funding to projects on environment, digital economy, and capacity building of academic and vocational personnel. Australia has also provided funding support to ASEAN member countries at a bilateral level in such areas as anti-human trafficking, infrastructure development, and public health.
The Prime Minister will be joined by head of state/government leaders of ASEAN member countries (except Myanmar), the Australian Prime Minister, Prime Minister of Timor-Leste as observer, and ASEAN Secretary General at the 2024 ASEAN-Australia Special Summit. He is also scheduled to have bilateral meetings with country leaders and executives of world’s renown firms.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/79754