รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM meets with USABC representatives  


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 28 พฤศจิกายน 2567
28/11/2567
พิมพ์
​PM meets with USABC representatives
​PM meets with USABC representatives
November 27, 2024, at 1000hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed about the meeting between Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra and a group of businessmen from the US-ASEAN Business Council (USABC), led by H.E. Mr. Robert Godec, Ambassador of the United States of America to Thailand, and Mr. Brian McFeeters, USABC Senior Vice President and Regional Managing Director. These businessmen represent over 40 companies, covering the areas of energy, healthcare, digital technology, tourism and creative economy, and legal and financial advisory services. Gist of the meeting is as follows:
The U.S. Ambassador informed the Prime Minister that the businessmen who attended the meeting today were from various sectors with a combined trade value of billions of US dollars. They are capable to support investments and create tens of thousands of jobs in Thailand. Prior to the meeting, these businessmen have had meetings, with satisfactory outcome, with several members of the cabinet. This underscores strong trade and investment partnership between Thailand and the U.S. at all levels and dimensions.
The Prime Minister mentioned her visit to Los Angeles where she took the occasion to extend an invitation for U.S. private sector to consider investment in Thailand in future industries. Investors in filming industry will also enjoy a 30% cash rebate per project. Last year alone, over 50 motion pictures that used Thailand as their filming location are American productions. Filming industry has generated an immense amount of revenue, and leading foreign filmmakers are increasingly interested in Thailand for their filming location.
During her attendance at the APEC Economy Leaders’ Meeting in Lima, Republic of Peru, the Prime Minister has emphasized Thailand’s readiness to promote connectivity in all dimensions. Last week, she had also a phone conversation with President-elect Trump who congratulated Thailand on its positive development, especially the economic growth.
The USABC businessmen commended the Government’s policy on ease of doing business and promotion of sustainable economy, as well as on the use of digital technology in trade and investment and financial sector. They affirmed their readiness to work together with the Thai Government to strengthen trade and investment relations between Thailand and the United States.
The Prime Minister also emphasized the “Soft Power” policy that aims to develop cooperation in all industrial sectors. Thailand hopes to exchange knowledge with experts from the U.S. in various fields. The Thai Government also prioritizes investment in clean energy and new industries, such as data centers, semi-conductors, and digital technology. Thailand is ready to receive advice from the U.S. business sector in a bid to drive forward economic cooperation between Thailand and the U.S.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/90744