รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on July 18, 2023


วันจันทร์ที่ 24 กรกฎาคม 2566
24/07/2566
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on July 18, 2023
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Notification of Commercial Ministry prescribing weapons and armaments as prohibited goods for export and transit to individual or organization, the case of Haiti, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Notification of Commercial Ministry prescribing weapons and armaments as prohibited goods for export and transit to individual or organization, the case of Haiti, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Commerce.
Gist
The draft Notification of Commercial Ministry prescribing weapons and armaments as prohibited goods for export and transit to individual or organization, the case of Haiti, B.E. … is issued in accordance with a resolution of UN Security Council in 2022 regarding the Republic of Haiti, with which Thailand has to oblige. The cabinet has also made a resolution to approve this matter on February 21, 2023.
Weapons and armaments, listed in the draft Notification, are prescribed as prohibited goods for export and transit to Mr. Jimmy Cherizier or “Barbeque”, or other individuals or organizations as identified by Committee of the UN Security Council. Mr. Jimmy Cherizier or “Barbeque” is a Haitian gang leader and former police officer who is the head of Fòs Revolisyonè G9 an fanmi e alye ("Revolutionary Forces of the G9 Family and Allies", abbreviated "G9" or "FRG9"), a federation of over a dozen Haitian gangs based in Port-au-Prince. He is believed to be responsible for numerous large-scale massacres in the Port-au-Prince area.
Title: Draft Notification of Prime Minister’s Office and Ministry of Interior prescribing number of aliens allowed to reside in the Kingdom of Thailand for B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Notification of Prime Minister’s Office and Ministry of Interior prescribing number of aliens allowed to remain in the Kingdom for B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Interior.
Gist
In accordance with Section 40 of the Immigration Act, B.E. 2522, subject to the provisions of Sections 42, 43 and 51, alien taking up residency in the Kingdom from year to year which shall not be more than one hundred persons per year from each country, and for stateless persons, not exceeding fifty per year. Ministry of Interior, therefore, proposed to the cabinet to approve number of aliens allowed to reside in the Kingdom of Thailand for  2023 (B.E. 2566), which is, one hundred persons per year from each country and for stateless persons, not exceeding fifty per year.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation determining opening and closing days and hours of entertainment place (No. …), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Ministerial Regulation determining opening and closing days and hours of entertainment place (No. …), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Interior. The Ministry is ordered to take opinions of Ministry of Tourism and Sports, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, and Office of National Economic and Social Development Council into consideration.
Gist
This is to make a revision to the Ministerial Regulation determining opening and closing days and hours of entertainment places, B.E. 2547 to allow 24-hour operation of entertainment places located in the Eastern Airport City to accommodate travelers and passengers.
Title: Draft Regulation of Office of the Civil Service Commission on Diseases, B.E. …
The cabinet approved the followings:
Approved reviewing of the draft Regulation of Office of the Civil Service Commission on Diseases, B.E. …, which is a resolution of the cabinet, dated September 20, 2022
Approved the draft Regulation as proposed by Office of the Civil Service Commission to be proceeded
Ordered Office of the Civil Service Commission to take opinions of Office of the Cabinet Secretariat into consideration
Gist
The draft Regulation of Office of the Civil Service Commission on Diseases, B.E. … was approved by the cabinet on September 20, 2022 to prohibit people with psychosis and mood disorders from becoming civil servants. However, concerned agencies, i.e., National Human Rights Commission, the Senate’s Committee on Social Development and Affairs for Children, Youth, Women, the Elderly, Persons with Disabilities and Opportunities, and the Disabilities Thailand, expressed concern over public discrimination against the people with psychosis and mood disorders.
After reviewing, Office of the Civil Service Commission on Diseases decided to exclude psychosis and mood disorders as prohibited diseases for civil servants, but, instead, prescribing clear physical examination of severe contagious or chronic diseases with pronounced or severe symptoms, in accordance with the Medical Committee of the Civil Service Commission’s rules and procedures.
Title: Draft Royal Decree revoking parts of Mae Yom National Park, Mae Tam Forest Reserve, and Mae Rong Kui Forest Reserve in Chiang Muan Sub-district, Chiang Muan district, Phayao province
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree revoking parts of Mae Yom National Park, Mae Tam Forest Reserve, and Mae Rong Kui Forest Reserve in Chiang Muan Sub-district, Chiang Muan district, Phayao province, as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment.
Gist
The draft Royal Decree prescribes revocation of parts of Mae Yom National Park, Mae Tam Forest Reserve, and Mae Rong Kui Forest Reserve in Chiang Muan Sub-district, Chiang Muan district, Phayao province (the total area of 1,344 rai 3 ngan 77 square wah) for the construction of Nam Pi Reservoir under the Royal Initiative in Phayao province.
Title: Draft Royal Decree on prorogation of second ordinary session of the National Assembly, B.E. …
The Cabinet approved in principle the Draft Royal Decree on prorogation of the second legislative ordinary session of the National Assembly, B.E. …, as proposed by the Secretariat of the House of Representatives.
According to Section 121 of the Constitution of the Kingdom of Thailand, each year there shall be two ordinary sessions of the National Assembly, each of which shall last 120 days. The day on which the first sitting is held shall be considered the commencement date of the first annual ordinary session, and the commencement date of the second annual ordinary session shall be fixed by the House of Representatives.
In light of the above, the convocation and prorogation dates of the National Assembly are set as follows:
Year
First annual ordinary session (B.E.)
Second annual ordinary session (B.E.)
1
3 July 2566 – 30 October 2566
12 December 2566 – 9 April 25671
2
3 July 2567 – 30 October 2567
12 December 2567 – 10 April 2568
3
3 July 2568 – 30 October 2568
12 December 2568 – 10 April 2569
4
3 July 2569 – 30 October 2569
12 December 2569 – 10 April 2570
1 The month of February B.E. 2567 (2024) has 29 days

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/70635