รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Cabinet approves Royal Decree on Convocation of the National Assembly, B.E. 2566


วันพุธที่ 7 มิถุนายน 2566
07/06/2566
พิมพ์
Cabinet approves Royal Decree on Convocation of the National Assembly, B.E. 2566
Cabinet approves Royal Decree on Convocation of the National
Assembly, B.E. 2566
June 6, 2023, . Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government
Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that the cabinet, in its meeting today, has made
approval to the draft Royal Decree on Convocation of the National Assembly, B.E. 2566 (date is
yet to be specified). The Cabinet Secretariat was assigned to liaise with Office of The Election
Commission of Thailand, the Secretariat of the House of Representatives, and the Privy Council
Chambers to present the draft Royal Decree to His Majesty the King for signature.
The cabinet’s approval of the draft Royal Decree on Convocation of the National Assembly, B.E.
2566 (date is yet to be specified) was made in accordance with the following Sections of the
Constitution of the Kingdom of Thailand:
Section 83 (revised): The House of Representatives consists of five hundred members: four
hundred members elected on a constituency basis; and one hundred members from party lists
of political parties.
Section 84: In a general election where 95% of the total number of Members of the House of
Representatives (475 members) have been elected, if it is necessary to convoke a sitting of the
National Assembly, it may be convoked.
Section 85(4): The Election Commission shall announce the results of the election after a
preliminary examination has been made and there are reasonable grounds to believe that the
result of the election is honest and just, and amounts to not less than 95% of all constituencies.
The Election Commission shall make a preliminary examination and shall announce the result of
the election expeditiously; the announcement shall be not later than 60 days from the date of
election (or by July 13, 2023).
Section 121(1): Within 15 days as from the announcement date of the result of the election of
Members of the House of Representatives which is a general election, the National Assembly
shall be convoked for the first sitting of its members (or by July 27, 2023).
Section 122(1, 2, and 4): The King convokes the National Assembly, opens and prorogues its
session. The King may be present to perform the opening State ceremony of the first annual
ordinary session or may command the Heir to the Throne who is sui jurisor any person to
perform the ceremony as His Representative.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/68962