รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-CESA approves “Phuket Sandbox” to reopen Phuket to vaccinated foreign tourists


วันอาทิตย์ที่ 6 มิถุนายน 2564
พิมพ์
CESA approves “Phuket Sandbox” to reopen Phuket to vaccinated foreign tourists
CESA approves “Phuket Sandbox” to reopen Phuket to vaccinated foreign tourists
June 4, 2021, at 1330hrs, at PMOC Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha presided over the 2/2021 meeting of the Committee for Economic Situation Administration (CESA) via a teleconference, gist of which is as follows:
CESA approved in principle Phuket Sandbox model, as proposed by Tourism Authority of Thailand (TAT), to reopen the province to foreign tourists from July 1, 2021 onward. Tourists who wish to visit the province without a 14-day quarantine musthave COVID-19 vaccination certificate valid a minimum of 14 days to one year before their arrival in Phuket, and must travel from any of the medium to low-risk countries identified byMinistry of Public Health. Kids younger than 6 years of age who accompany vaccinated parents may also enter the province, but those between 6-18 years old are required to undergo COVID-19 test upon arrival at the Phuket Airport. They must also present a vaccination certificate of a COVID-19 vaccine registered under the Thai law or certified by WHO, and are required to install a mobile application upon arrival in the country, as well as stay at a SHA+ standard hotel for 14 nights before being able to travel to other provinces.
CESA also deliberated the “Better Phuket Initiatives”, a preparation plan for reopening of the province, which includes landscape development, tourism worker skill development, safety enhancement, among others. TAT has been assigned to lay out detail of the plan to be submitted to CESA, and later, to the cabinet.
CESA also approved investment and economic stimulus measures to attract high-potential foreigners. Focus has been made on 4 target groups: 1) Wealthy global citizens, 2) Investors with highly-spending power under the Flexible Plus Program, 3) Wealthy pensioners, and 4) High-skilled professionals. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Energy SupattanapongPunmeechaow has been assigned to collaborate with concerned agencies to lay out detail of the matter.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/42468