รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on November 12, 2024


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 14 พฤศจิกายน 2567
14/11/2567
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on November 12, 2024
The cabinet met on November 12, 2024
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Division of the Revenue Department, Ministry of Finance (No. ...) B.E. ....
The cabinet acknowledged the draft Ministerial Regulation on Division of the Revenue Department, Ministry of Finance (No. ...) B.E. ...., which has been deliberated by Office of Council of State, and ordered for the Cabinet Secretariat to forward the draft Ministerial Regulation to Ministry of Finance for announcing in the Royal Gazette.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Division of the Revenue Department, Ministry of Finance (No. ...) B.E. ...., is an amendment of the Ministerial Regulation on Division of the Revenue Department, Ministry of Finance, B.E. 2560, by
1) Dissolving the Small and Medium Business Tax Administration Division, and consolidating the tasks related to small and medium business tax administration to the Tax Policy and Planning Division. This is to streamline and integrate policies and measures related to small and medium enterprises (SMEs)
2) Establishing International Tax Division to administer tasks related to international taxes, and enhance capacity of overall taxation system to ensure efficiency.
Restructuring divisions under the Revenue Department will not require addition of division nor personnel.
Title: Draft Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment Announcement on Projects for Conservation and Sustainable Use of Natural Resources in National Parks B.E...
The cabinet acknowledged the draft Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment Announcement on Projects for Conservation and Sustainable Use of Natural Resources in National Parks B.E..., as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment.
Gist
The draft Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment Announcement on Projects for Conservation and Sustainable Use of Natural Resources in National Parks B.E... prescribes implementation of projects for conservation and sustainable use of natural resources in 7 national parks, namely, 1) Khun Phawo National Park, Tak Province; 2) Surin Islands National Park, Phang Nga Province; 3) Phu Chong - Na Yoi National Park, Ubon Ratchathani Province; 4) Chaloem Rattanakosin National Park, Kanchanaburi Province; 5) Khun Nan National Park, Nan Province; 6) Phu Hin Rong Kla National Park, Phitsanulok and Loei Provinces; and 7) Lan Sang National Park, Tak Province. Project implementation period is for 20 years from the date this announcement takes effect. These projects are aimed to ensure proper use of natural resources so as not to affect nature, wildlife, biodiversity and ecosystems.
Title: Unilateral addition of holidays for 2025 and 2026
The cabinet approved unilateral addition of holidays for 2 days in 2025 (June 2, and August 11), and for 1 day in 2026 (January 2), and acknowledged the total number of national holidays for 2025 (21 days). This is as proposed by the Cabinet Secretariat. In the event that any agency has a mission to provide services to the public, or has important official duties on the aforementioned holidays that have been previously scheduled or scheduled, which if cancelled or postponed, will cause damage or affect the provision of services to the public, head of that particular agency shall consider taking action as deemed appropriate, without causing damage to the Government or affecting provision of services to the public. In the case of state enterprises, financial institutions, and the private sector, each state enterprise, the Bank of Thailand, and Ministry of Labor shall consider the necessity and appropriateness of announcing the aforementioned dates as holidays, in accordance with relevant laws, as applicable.
Gist
Approval of unilateral addition of holidays will make longer and consecutive holidays for existing national holidays. This is in order to boost domestic economy, especially the tourism sector.
Title: 1/2024 Cabinet Retreat
The cabinet approved the 1/2024 cabinet retreat as proposed by the Cabinet Secretariat.
Gist
The Prime Minister has made approval to the 1/2024 cabinet retreat in Chiang Mai Province on Friday, November 29, 2024, and the field visits in Chiang Mai and Chiang Rai of the cabinet members during Thursday, November 28 and Sunday, December 1, 2024. Purposes of the field visits are to follow up on rehabilitation in the wake of flood disaster, disaster preparedness, and water management to prevent flood and drought.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/90224