รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on November 5, 2024. 


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 14 พฤศจิกายน 2567
14/11/2567
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on November 5, 2024.
The cabinet met on November 5, 2024.
Title: Draft Act on Establishment of Court of Appeal for Narcotic Cases, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Act on Establishment of Court of Appeal for Narcotic Cases, B.E. …, and acknowledged plan for the drafting of secondary legislations, timeframes, and essential framework of secondary legislation issued under the said draft Act. This is as proposed by Office of the Court of Justice.
Gist
The draft Act on Establishment of Court of Appeal for Narcotic Cases, B.E. … prescribes upgrade of Narcotic Case Division under the Court of Appeals to have jurisdiction over drug-related offences at the Court of Appeals throughout the Kingdom. Judges working for the Court of Appeal for Narcotic Cases shall have knowledge and expertise in drug-related offences. The establishment of the Court of Appeal for Narcotic Cases is aimed to address an increase of narcotic cases at the Narcotic Case Division of the Court of Appeal.
Title: Draft Royal Decree on Establishment of Thailand Greenhouse Gas Management Organization (Public Organization)
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on Establishment of Thailand Greenhouse Gas Management Organization (Public Organization), as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment.
Gist
The draft Royal Decree on Establishment of Thailand Greenhouse Gas Management Organization (Public Organization) is a revision to composition of an ex officio board member of the Greenhouse Gas Management Organization (Public Organization) from “Secretary-General of the Office of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy and Planning” to “Director-General of the Department of Climate Change and Environment”. This is to comply with the Royal Decree on Renaming of the Department of Environmental Quality Promotion to the Department of Climate Change and Environment, B.E. 2566, and Ministerial Regulation on the Division of Department of Climate Change and Environment, B.E. 2566.
Title: Application for election to Council of Administration and Postal Operations Council at the 28th General Assembly of the Universal Postal Union
The cabinet approved Thailand’s application for the election of members of Postal Operations Council (POC) and Council of Administration (CA) at the 28th General Assembly of the Universal Postal Union (UPU). Ministry of Foreign Affairs is assigned to solicit / exchange votes of support from UPU member countries in Thailand’s application for election as CA and POC members. This is as proposed by Ministry of Digital Economy and Society.
Gist
Thailand has been UPU member since July 1, 1939, and has been chosen as the location of UPU Regional Adviser Office for Asia. The country has been trusted by member countries to be elected as CA member for 9 terms (including Thailand’s current membership for 2021 - 2025), and as POC member for 10 terms (from 1964 - 2021). UPU is scheduled to hold its 28th National Assembly from September 8 -20 September 2025, and will hold elections for CA and POC members (for 2026-2029), and Thailand intends to apply for the election to both CA and POC for another term. CA and POC membership would enable Thailand to protect its interests, take part in UPU policy making, and forge close relations with other UPU member countries, among others.
Title: Adoption of Vientiane Declaration of the 10th Ayeyawady - Chao Phraya - Mekong Economic Cooperation Strategy (ACMECS)
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Foreign Affairs:
1. Approved the draft Vientiane Declaration of the 10th Ayeyawady - Chao Phraya - Mekong Economic Cooperation Strategy (ACMECS). Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet
2. Authorized the Prime Minister or a representative to adopt the draft Vientiane Declaration as agreed by member countries at the 10th ACMECS Summit
Gist
At the 10th Ayeyawady - Chao Phraya - Mekong Economic Cooperation Strategy (ACMECS) Summit, which was chaired by Prime Minister of Lao PDR under the theme ““Seamless ACMECS to promote seamless connectivity”, the draft Vientiane Declaration of the 10th Ayeyawady - Chao Phraya - Mekong Economic Cooperation Strategy (ACMECS) will be adopted as outcome document. The draft Vientiane Declaration prescribes: 1) Supporting economic integration among ACMECS member countries; (2) Congratulating success of the establishment of the ACMECS Temporary Secretariat at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Thailand; (3) Extending implementation period of the ACMECS Master Plan (2019 - 2023); and (4) Hosting of the 11th ACMECS Leaders' Meeting in 2026 by the Republic of the Union of Myanmar

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/90215