รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Govt to support creative industry and motion picture filming in Thailand through 30% cash rebate


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 14 พฤศจิกายน 2567
14/11/2567
พิมพ์
Govt to support creative industry and motion picture filming in Thailand through 30% cash rebate
Govt to support creative industry and motion picture filming in Thailand through 30% cash rebate
Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed that on November 12, 2024, at 1100hrs (Los Angeles local time), at the Beverly Wilshire Hotel, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra hosted a networking reception for Mr. Charles H. Rivkin, chairman and chief executive officer of the Motion Picture Association (MPA) and his delegation which include executives from leading US film companies.
According to the Prime Minister, Thailand strives to promote soft powers, and filming industry is one of the country’s soft powers that significantly generates incomes. Thailand has learned well from the U.S. on leveraging soft powers for business and income generation. Last year alone, over 450 films from 40 countries have been shot in Thailand, among which 34 motion pictures are American productions. Filming industry has generated an estimated revenue of US$190 million or approximately 7 billion Baht last year.
The Thai Government has a policy to support creative industry and motion picture filming in Thailand through such investment promotion as 30% cash rebate per project with no rebate ceiling. By implementing the measure, it is expected that Thailand earns no less than 10 billion Baht in revenue the next year from foreign film shoot in the country.
Mr. Rivkin, chairman and chief executive officer of the Motion Picture Association (MPA), of which the members include Netflix, Disney, HBO, among others, commended the Thai Government for offering privileges to foreign filmmakers. This will significantly incentivize those in the international film industry to consider Thailand as prime location in the region for motion picture filming, and help increase foreign investment in the country. A number of MPA members have also shot films in Thailand, injecting approx. USD1.3 million per day and creating employments to the local economy.
Aside from MPA chairman and chief executive officer, senior executives from 7 leading filmmaking companies also attended the meeting, namely, 1) Ms. Cathleen Taff (president of distribution, franchise, and audience insights for the Walt Disney Studios); 2) Mr. Jay Roewe (Senior Vice President, Production Planning & Incentives at HBO/HBO MAX); 3) Mr. Vernon Sanders (Head of Television at Amazon Studios); 4) Mr. Chris Miller (General Counsel of Universal Filmed Entertainment Group); 5) Mr. David Hyman (Chief Legal Officer for Netflix); 6) Ms. Jill Ratner (Executive Vice President and General Counsel for Sony Pictures Entertainment); and 7) Ms. Sharon Keyser (Senior VP, Government Relations & Planning at Paramount Pictures Corporation).

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/90209