รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on March 14, 2023


วันจันทร์ที่ 20 มีนาคม 2566
20/03/2566
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on March 14, 2023
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Ang-Thong province’s Muang District  (Pa Ngew, Sala Daeng, Yan Sue, Talad Kruad, Ban Ri subdistricts) and Chaiyo District (Chairit subdistrict), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Ang-Thong province’s Muang District  (Pa Ngew, Sala Daeng, Yan Sue, Talad Kruad, Ban Ri subdistricts) and Chaiyo District (Chairit subdistrict), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Transport.
Gist
The Royal Decree prescribes areas in Ang-Thong province’s Muang District  (Pa Ngew, Sala Daeng, Yan Sue, Talad Kruad, Ban Ri subdistricts) and Chaiyo District (Chairit subdistrict) to be expropriated for the construction of National Highway No. 377 (Maung Ang-Thong Bypass). Land and property survey shall be undertaken within 180 days after the Royal Decree takes effect.
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Nakhon Phanom province’s That Phanom District  (Fang Dang, Nam Kam, That Phanom, That Phanom Nua, and Phra Klang Thung subdistricts), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Nakhon Phanom province’s That Phanom District  (Fang Dang, Nam Kam, That Phanom, That Phanom Nua, and Phra Klang Thung subdistrict), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Transport.
Gist
The Royal Decree prescribes areas in Nakhon Phanom province’s That Phanom District  (Fang Dang, Nam Kam, That Phanom, That Phanom Nua, and Phra Klang Thung subdistrict) to be expropriated for the construction of National Highway No. 297 (Muang That Phanom Bypass). Land and property survey shall be undertaken within 180 days after the Royal Decree takes effect.
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Nong Bua Lamphu province’s Si Bunruang District  (Si Bunruang, Hanna Ngam, Muang Mai subdistricts), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Nong Bua Lamphu province’s Si Bunruang District  (Si Bunruang, Hanna Ngam, Muang Mai subdistricts), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Transport.
Gist
The Royal Decree prescribes areas in Nakhon Phanom province’s That Phanom District  (Fang Dang, Nam Kam, That Phanom, That Phanom Nua, and Phra Klang Thung subdistrict) to be expropriated for the construction of National Highway No. 298 (Muang Si Bunruang Bypass). Land and property survey shall be undertaken within 180 days after the Royal Decree takes effect.
Title: Report on the Industrial Economics Status in December 2022
The cabinet acknowledged Industrial Economic Report for December 2022, as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
Based on the report, manufacturing production index (MPI) contracted by 8.2% YOY due to the decline in export (as a result of global economic recession). However, domestic-based industries, i.e., tourism, palm oil, shoes and bags manufacturing, and drinks, have fared well.
Key industries that contributed to the contraction were hard disk drive (-39.35%), plastic beads (-22.59%), furniture (-46.01%) refined petroleum production, textile and wearing apparel industry, and beer production.
Key industries that have expanded well in December 2022 were palm oil (+33.44%), and automotive (+2.06%).
Title: Request for Government’s contingency fund for emergency to address flood situation in the Bigger Chao Phraya area (urgent phase)
The cabinet approved allocation of Government’s contingency fund for emergency to 84 projects that address flood situation in the Bigger Chao Phraya area (urgent phase), for the budget framework of 723.5419 Baht. Budget allocation and disbursement shall be in accordance with the Budget Bureau.
Title: Additional subsidy of cooking gas expense for state welfare card holders
The cabinet approved 150 million Baht in budget to subsidize cooking gas expenses for approx. 7.5 million state welfare card holders, as proposed by Ministry of Energy.
Gist
The approval will offer the subsidy of 20 Baht/person/3 months, in addition to 80 Baht/person/3 months approved earlier on February 28, 2023. This makes 100 Baht/person/3 months in subsidy to state welfare card holders to be used for cooking gas expenses during April and June 2023. The aim is to alleviate financial burden of low-income earners.
Title: Signing of Implementing Arrangement (IA) between the Thailand Trade and Economic Office in Taipei and the Taipei Economic and Cultural office in Thailand on Fisheries Cooperation
The cabinet approved the signing of Implementing Arrangement (IA) between the Thailand Trade and Economic Office in Taipei and the Taipei Economic and Cultural office in Thailand on Fisheries Cooperation between Thailand Trade and Economic Office (Taipei) [TTEO] and Taipei Economic and Cultural Office (TECO), and authorized Director-General of TTEO as signatory of the IA. The cabinet also approved in principle that if there is any amendment in parts that are not gist, Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives may proceed without having to request for approval of the cabinet again.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/66348