รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with Chief Operations Officer of Germany's leading global semiconductor company


วันอังคารที่ 14 มกราคม 2568
14/01/2568
พิมพ์
PM meets with Chief Operations Officer of Germany's leading global semiconductor company
PM meets with Chief Operations Officer of Germany's leading global semiconductor company
January 13, 2025, at 0930hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Mr. Rutger Wijburg, Member of the Management Board and Chief Operations Officer of the Infineon Technologies AG, Germany's leading global semiconductor company, and the delegation, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra on occasion of his visit to Thailand. Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister’s emphasized the Thai Government’s awareness of the growing semiconductor business, and strives to develop a strategic plan setting a goal for Thailand to be part of the global semiconductor supply chain. Mr. Wijburg commended the Thai Government’s policy to improve investment environment for ease of doing business and for constant industrial growth.
Both the Prime Minister and Mr. Wijburg agreed on the importance of human resource development. The COO of Infineon Technologies AG praised the Government for prioritizing capacity building through the scholarships provided to youths in a bid to prepare them for the emergence of new and future industries. He was also impressed by the potentiality, professionality, and capability of Thai workforces, as witnessed from the Thai personnel who have been in Europe for trainings, and expressed confidence that Thailand’s semiconductor industry will prosper in the future.
Both parties also discussed the importance of green and eco-friendly investment. Infineon Technologies AG commits to an increasing use of clean and renewable energy in its manufacturing process. The Prime Minister was very pleased with the company’s interest in sustainable investment, and revealed that the Thai Government has offered investment privileges to eco-friendly industries to encourage more international companies to invest in these industries.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/92363