รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Srettha Thavisin appointed as 30th Prime Minister


วันจันทร์ที่ 28 สิงหาคม 2566
28/08/2566
พิมพ์
Srettha Thavisin appointed as 30th Prime Minister
Srettha Thavisin appointed as 30th Prime Minister
August 23, 2023, at 1800hrs, at the headquarters of Pheu Thai Party, Mr. Srettha Thavisin attended a ceremony to receive the Royal Command on Appointment of the Prime Minister. Secretary-General of the House of Representatives Pornpith Phetchareon delivered and officially announced the Royal Command as follows:
Announcement on the
Appointment of the Prime Minister
Phra Bat Somdet Phra Poramenthra Ramathibodi Sisin Maha Vajiralongkorn Phra Vajira Klao Chao Yu Hua has graciously given a Royal Command for the announcement to be made that following the House of Representatives’ resolution on 22nd August B.E. 2566 (2023) approving the appointment of Mr. Srettha Thavisin as Prime Minister with a majority of votes from the total number of existing members of the House of Representatives and the Senate.
On the authority of Section 158 of the Constitution of the Kingdom of Thailand, His Majesty therefore graciously appoints Mr. Srettha Thavisin as Prime Minister to administer state affairs forthwith.
Announced on 22nd August B.E. 2566 (2023),
Being the 8th year of the present Reign.
Countersigned by
Mr. Wanmuhamadnoor Matha
Speaker of the House of Representatives
Newly appointed Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin expressed his humble gratitude for His Majesty the King’s endorsement to appoint him as Prime Minister, and stated that it was the utmost honor of his life and entire family. He also pledged to perform the duty to the best of his ability with honesty and in good faith for the interest of the people and country, and in accordance with His Majesty’s first royal command and the Constitution of the Kingdom of Thailand.
The Prime Minister thanked members of the House of Representatives and the Senate, as well as fellow Thai people, government officials, police, military, all agencies and sectors, civil society, the private sector, and coalition parties, for entrusting him with state administration
duty, and committed that the 4 years under his premiership would be the 4 years of changes. Thailand is now at a crucial turning point, with wide-ranging crises and problems waiting to be urgently solved. His policy implementation will foster transformation from macro to household levels and move forward the country. He intended to forge positive cooperation with the private and foreign sectors, and administer national budget in a transparent and efficient manner.
The Prime Minister also committed to create a society that respects difference in identities and opinions, and encourage genuine public engagement. The Government under the leadership of Pheu Thai Party would continue to work hard to eliminate people’s plights and bring about happiness and prosperity to everyone in an equal manner. Thailand will be made the land of hope for the new generations and the land of happiness for people of all ages. The Prime Minister invited all the Thai people to join force with his Government in advancing the country, and affirmed that he would work tirelessly to bring back solidarity, and create better future for the next generations.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/71728