รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand classified as ‘low-risk country’ under EU Deforestation Regulation (EUDR) benchmarking system


วันจันทร์ที่ 9 มิถุนายน 2568
09/06/2568
พิมพ์
Thailand classified as ‘low-risk country’ under EU Deforestation Regulation (EUDR) benchmarking system
Thailand classified as ‘low-risk country’ under EU Deforestation Regulation (EUDR) benchmarking system
June 9, 2025, Deputy Government Spokesperson Sasikarn Watthanachan disclosed that the European Union (EU) announced a benchmarking system to classify countries according to the level of risk associated with each country's production of EU Deforestation Regulation (EUDR)-covered commodities. Along with other ASEAN nations, namely, Singapore, Vietnam, the Philippines, Lao PDR, and Brunei, Thailand is classified as low-risk country.
The risk classification defines the extent of compliance checks that EU Member States’ competent authorities foresee among operators sourcing from different countries (1% for ‘low risk’, 3% for ‘standard risk’ and 9% for ‘high risk’). This means EU’s sourcing from Thailand entails simplified due diligence obligations for operators and traders. Information for due diligence purposes is still required, but it is not mandatory for operators and traders to assess and mitigate risks.
According to Ministry of Commerce’s Foreign Trade Department, in 2024, total value of Thailand’s exported deforestation-free products is USD10,998.03, out of which those exported to EU member states accounted for USD694.12 or 6.31%. Being classified as EUDR low-risk country would help reducing manufacturing cost in terms of due diligence obligations, and would enhance competitiveness of Thai products in the EU markets.
The EUDR benchmarking is implemented to address forest degradation and deforestation across the world that resulted from conversion of forest for agricultural use, and regeneration of primary forests into plantation forests or into other wooded land or planted forests. Products and commodities that are covered under the EUDR benchmarking are palm oil, cattle, soy, coffee, cocoa, timber, rubber, and products derived from the listed commodities (such as beef, furniture, or chocolate).
According to the Deputy Government Spokesperson, the Government has placed great importance on sustainable management of natural resources, and strives to encourage all sectors to improve production standards in line with global market trends. Further information on the EUDR benchmarking system can be obtained at https://green-forum.ec.europa.eu/deforestation-regulation-implementation/eudr-cooperation-and-partnerships/country-classification-list_en, or Hotline: 1385, or 02 528 7500-29 ext. 4710.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/97262