รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM reaffirms Govt’s commitment to continue to fight against call center gangs and hybrid scams


วันพุธที่ 26 กุมภาพันธ์ 2568
26/02/2568
พิมพ์
PM reaffirms Govt’s commitment to continue to fight against call center gangs and hybrid scams
PM reaffirms Govt’s commitment to continue to fight against call center gangs and hybrid scams
February 25, 2025, at 1150hrs, at the Command Building I, Government House, following the weekly cabinet meeting, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra disclosed that the cabinet discussed the recent call center gang suppression operation through sealing off the border areas in 14 provinces. With the collaboration from the Chinese and Myanmar authorities, the large number of culprits have been arrested. Ministry of Defense has now been arranging with the destination countries for the repatriation of these culprits.
According to the Prime Minister, Thailand, China, and Myanmar have established a tripartite working group to discuss solutions to the problem in a tangible way. The Prime Minister also ordered relevant agencies to closely monitor their personnel who may be illegally involved in the operation of call center gangs. Ministry of Digital Economy and Society also reported on its collaborative effort with the National Broadcasting and Telecommunications Commission (NBTC), Police Central Investigation Bureau, and telecommunications companies to dismantle signal towers near border areas, and reduce tower height and signal strength.
Additionally, internet signal dishes have been reangled towards the Thai border and the unauthorized SIMBOX signals have been disconnected. The Prime Minister reaffirmed the Government’s commitment to take serious action on the matter through its collaboration with China, Myanmar, and Cambodia.
On February 28, the Prime Minister will have a field visit to Sa Kaeo province to follow up on the situation. She affirmed the Government’s commitment to continue to fight against call center gangs and hybrid scams until the problem is solved. The Prime Minister added that Thailand has been commended by the international community on its effort to address the issue and to seek cooperation with other countries on the matter, as solving the problem would also benefit the neighboring countries.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/93815