รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM delivers remarks at 2nd ASEAN Future Forum (AFF)


วันพุธที่ 26 กุมภาพันธ์ 2568
26/02/2568
พิมพ์
PM delivers remarks at 2nd ASEAN Future Forum (AFF)
PM delivers remarks at 2nd ASEAN Future Forum (AFF)
February 25, 2025, at approximately 1450hrs (Thailand time), Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra delivered statement via a video conference at the opening ceremony of the 2nd ASEAN Future Forum (AFF), held in Hanoi, Vietnam. The forum was organized under the theme “Building a United, Inclusive and Resilient ASEAN amidst Global Transformations.” with the objectives to achieve ASEAN Community Vision 2045, and to seek solutions to and address future challenges through ASEAN centrality. Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed gist of her statement as follows:
According to the Prime Minister, with ongoing global transformations and polarization in international fora, be it, geopolitical conflicts, complex transnational crimes, economic recession, technological disruption, pollution, and environmental degradation, it is critical for ASEAN to address these challenges for the sake of its future. The Prime Minister commended Vietnam for hosting the 2nd AFF with a timely theme.
Since its establishment 57 years ago, ASEAN has grown to become a model for regionalism and multilateralism. It has demonstrated resilience to changing security environment and global strategies. Amidst the global uncertainties and changes, ASEAN needs to work together to emerge more united, inclusive and resilient than ever before.
A united ASEAN will enable the region to navigate through rapidly changing global geopolitics, and to address emerging threats and challenges. ASEAN must work more closely together to counter security threats for the safety and well-being of its people. ASEAN must jointly take a stand on regional and global issues affecting the region, based on shared interests and principles. ASEAN must also demonstrate its centrality by constructively engaging with all major powers and fostering strategic trust through ASEAN-led mechanisms.
An inclusive ASEAN will enable a strong ASEAN Community that leaves no one behind. ASEAN must continue to promote equal access to opportunities through inclusive cross-sectoral partnerships between governments, businesses and people, while fostering concrete partnerships with external partners for the interest of its people.
A resilient ASEAN is essential to responding to emerging challenges and achieving inclusive growth and sustainable development. In realizing its long-term strategic goals, ASEAN must be ready to seize opportunities to bring about changes for the benefit of its people and the region. Concrete actions must also be taken towards closer economic integration, digital transformation, green transformation, climate change mitigation, and adaptation in a bid to tackle economic volatility and social disruption.
Thailand is committed to contributing to building a more inclusive and resilient ASEAN Community amid global transformations. As ASEAN embarks on its new ASEAN Community Vision 2045, the Prime Minister emphasized the importance of continuing to build on ASEAN’s commitments to a truly significant ASEAN Community, and expressed confidence that with the cooperation among ASEAN member states, challenges would be overcome for a better future of the people of ASEAN. She wished the 2nd AFF a success.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/93823