รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on May 23, 2023. 


วันศุกร์ที่ 26 พฤษภาคม 2566
26/05/2566
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on May 23, 2023.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on additional kind of conserved wild animals (No. …), B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Royal Decree on additional kind of conserved wild
animals (No. …), B.E. … which prescribes balaenptera musculus (blue whale) as additional kind of
conserved wild animals. The draft Royal Decree shall be merged into one law with another draft
Royal Decree, approved earlier by the cabinet on September 6, 2022, which prescribes buceros
vigil or rhinoplax vigil (helmeted hornbill) as conserved wild animal.
Gist
Prescription of balaenptera musculus and buceros vigil/rhinoplax vigil as conserved wild animals
has been proceeded according to Section 6(2) of the Wild Animal Conservation and Protection Act,
B.E.2562 which stipulates that “in the case where the Director-General, with the approval of the
Commission, considers that any kinds of wild animals should be prescribed as conserved wild
animals in addition to those prescribed in paragraph one, it shall be made by enactment of a
Royal Decree.”
Balaenptera musculus was earlier listed as protected wild animal. They are found in all oceans,
and were spotted in Thailand’s Andaman Coast 3 times. However, intensive hunting in the past for
commercial and local fishing purposes, coupling with the declining availability of its primary food
source, whether due to climate change, ocean acidification or other factors, have brought
balaenptera musculus to the brink of extinction. International Union for Conservation of Nature
(IUCN) has, therefore, included balaenptera musculus in the IUCN Red List as endangered species
(EN). Thailand also lists balaenptera musculus in Thailand Red Data.
Once the law takes effect, balaenptera musculus and buceros vigil/rhinoplax vigil will be strictly
conserved and preserved in the similar manner as other 19 kinds of conserved wild animals under
the Wild Animal Conservation and Protection Act, B.E.2562, which include mammal wild animals
(14), bird-species wild animals (3), reptile wild animals (1), and fish-species wild animals (1).
Title: Thailand’s hosting of 2026 Annual Meetings of the World Bank Group (WBG) and the
International Monetary Fund (IMF)
The cabinet acknowledged a resolution of World Bank and IMF Board of Governors, in its meeting
dated April 10, 2023, to choose Thailand as host of the 2026 Annual Meetings of the World Bank
Group (WBG) and the International Monetary Fund (IMF), to be held on October 16, 2026. Ministry
of Finance and the Bank of Thailand will proceed with the budget planning and preparation of the
MOU to be signed between Thailand and the WBG - IMF.
Gist
The WBG - IMF Meetings are usually held for two consecutive years at the WBG and IMF
headquarters in Washington, D.C. and every third year in one of the institutions’ member
countries. The upcoming 2023 Annual Meetings will take place this October in Marrakech,
Morocco, which Thailand is invited to attend to observe and discuss further about the country’s
hosting of the meeting in 2026.
Thailand became member of the World Bank and IMF on May 3, 1949, and has hosted the WBG –
IMF Annual Meetings once in 1991 in Bangkok. Hosting the event will showcase the country’s
readiness as host of international meetings and conferences. Thailand is also selected to host the
International Horticultural Expo 2026 in Udon Thani province, and is now bidding for the hosting of
the Specialized Expo 2028-Phuket Thailand.
Title: Second Session of the Intergovernmental Negotiating Committee on Plastic Pollution
The cabinet acknowledged the component of Thai delegation to participate in the second session
of the Intergovernmental Negotiating Committee to develop an international legally binding
instrument on plastic pollution, including in the marine environment (INC-2), to be held in Paris,
Republic of France, and approved Thailand’s position and negotiation framework for the meeting.
Should there be any additional agenda other than those included in the negotiation framework
with no legally binding, head of the Thai delegation may exercise judgment without having to
resubmit to the cabinet. This is as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment.
Gist
Component of the Thai delegation to participate in the second session of the Intergovernmental
Negotiating Committee to develop an international legally binding instrument on plastic pollution,
including in the marine environment (INC-2), to be held in Paris during May 28 – June 2, 2023 is: an
expert from the Department of Pollution Control who specializes in waste and hazardous
substance management, as head of the Thai delegation, and representatives from related
agencies, i.e., Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, and Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
altogether 6 persons.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/68576