รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with Chinese Ambassador to Thailand to discuss further reinforcement of relations and cooperation


วันเสาร์ที่ 4 พฤศจิกายน 2566
04/11/2566
พิมพ์
PM meets with Chinese Ambassador to Thailand to discuss further reinforcement of relations and cooperation
PM meets with Chinese Ambassador to Thailand to discuss further reinforcement of relations and cooperation
November 3, 2023, at 1400hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Han Zhiqiang, Ambassador of the People's Republic of China to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin to discuss strengthening of relations and cooperation. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister thanked the Ambassador and the Embassy of the People's Republic of China to Thailand for liaising his official visit to China which turned out a success. The Chinese Ambassador commended the Prime Minister’s active position on further reinforcing relations with China, which impressed the Chinese people. The Chinese Government also places importance on the outcomes of the meetings the Prime Minister had with its key political figures, namely President Xi Jinping, Prime Minister Li Qiang, and chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress Zhao Leji, as all concerned agencies have been following up to ensure tangible progress of these outcomes.
On an increase of rice import quota to a million tons, the Ambassador updated that 800,000 tons of Thai rice has, so far, been imported to China, and would be continued until the quota is reached.
With regard to an export of live cattle and cattle products from Thailand to China, the Prime Minister affirmed that Thailand would make sure that its products meet China’s related import standard and regulation, and called on the Chinese counterpart to consider importing Thai live cattle and cattle products. The Ambassador stated that the Chinese Government has already assigned its customs agency to look into the matter.
The Ambassador recognized the importance of the construction of an agro product inspection checkpoint at Guanlei Port, as this would be a direct channel for the export of Thai goods without going through a 3rd country, and agreed to consider supporting the project.
He also reported that China agreed to consider an exemption of visa for holders of passports or travel documents of each other’s country, and hoped to finalize related negotiation the soonest.
The Prime Minister thanked the Chinese Government for their interest in Thailand’s Landbridge project, on which Chinese National Development and Reform Commission was ordered to follow up and explore feasibility of cooperation with Thailand.
The Prime Minister’s visit to Lao PDR on October 30, 2023 underscored Thailand’s priority on connectivity promotion, especially China-Laos-Thailand railway project, as Thailand and Laos agreed to expedite the construction of railway bridge across Mekong River (Nong Khai-Vientiane) to accommodate rail transport and logistics between Thailand, Lao PDR, and China.
Both parties also discussed submarine purchasing deal, and agreed to cooperate to seek a best possible solution to the matter.The Prime Minister took the occasion, on behalf of the Thai people, to convey his condolences over the passing of former Prime Minister Li Keqiang, on which the Ambassador expressed appreciation toward the Prime Minister and Thai people.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/74201