รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM attends and delivers keynote address at 2nd P4G Summit


วันจันทร์ที่ 31 พฤษภาคม 2564
พิมพ์
PM attends and delivers keynote address at 2nd P4G Summit
PM attends and delivers keynote address at 2nd P4G Summit
May 31, 2021 at 20.00 hrs, at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha attended and delivered a keynote address at the 2nd Partnering for Green Growth and Global Goals 2030 Summit (2nd P4G Summit), hosted by South Korea via a teleconference. The summit is held under the theme "Inclusive Green Recovery towards Carbon Neutrality". Participating in the meeting, other than the Prime Minister, were leaders and representatives of South Korea, Denmark, Columbia, the European Union, Vietnam, the Netherlands, USA, Cambodia, Austria, Costa Rica, Peru and head of the International Monetary Fund. Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the Prime Minister's keynote address as follows:
According to the Prime Minister, the meeting is a good opportunity for the leaders to discuss and exchange views on the green recovery after COVID-19, which should be in line with the implementation of UN SDGs, especially the "One Health" principle that embraces both human and nature. Thailand has adopted the Sufficiency Economy Philosophy as a guideline for inclusive development without leaving anyone behind. Focus has been made on empowering the people, creating immunity, and promoting balances between human and nature.
Thailand also declared the BCG economic model as a national agenda in a bid to promote green recovery after COVID-19. Science, technology and innovation will be adopted to uplift industries, increase productivity, minimize resource losses throughout the production chain, and reduce environmental impact. Participation of all concerned sectors is also promoted through the four-party mechanism, i.e., public, private, academic, and people sectors. According to the Prime Minister, the BCG economic model is relevant with the goal of this meeting, and is an answer to sustainable development. It would also help promote partnership between Thailand and the global community at all levels, especially under the APEC framework which is to be hosted by Thailand next year.
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, various environmental cooperation at the international level has been halted. Thailand would like to take the opportunity to call on every country to accelerate their undertaking under related obligations to cope with the challenges, and to demonstrate the joint intent to drive forward COP26, to be held in UK this November, toward tangible achievement.
The Prime Minister added that Thailand’s Climate Change Act is now in the drafting process. The bill will inclusively cover undertakings related to climate change in every dimension, and will promote more engagement of the private sector and communities. Thailand also sets the target to increase use of EVs to 15 million (1/3 of the total number of vehicles in the country) within 2035.  Moreover, the government will plant hundreds of millions of perennial trees, increase the use of renewable energy, reduce land waste, marine waste according to the national strategy.
In closing, the Prime Minister urged every country to build on concerted effort to forge new cooperation, particularly through technology and innovation exchange, for promotion of true and sustainable green growth. He also expressed Thailand’s readiness to exchange knowledge on the BCG economic model with South Korea’s New Southern Policy Plus (NSPP).
At the end of the meeting, the Seoul Declaration was adopted as the joint declaration of intent of the participating leader under the B4G framework.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/42265