รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM promotes tourism-friendly atmosphere during the off-season from July to September 2024 


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 25 กรกฎาคม 2567
PM promotes tourism-friendly atmosphere during the off-season from July to September 2024
by organizing the "Amazing Muay Thai Experience" event to explore the origins of "Muay Thai" as Thailand's cultural heritage.
Government Spokesperson invites Muay Thai enthusiasts to experience the birthplaces in four provinces: Surat Thani, Uttaradit, Nakhon Ratchasima, and Lopburi - showcasing the unique styles of ancient Muay Thai, and enjoy the ultimate martial arts experience under the guidance of local Muay Thai masters.
July 19, 2024, Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed that Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin is driving the IGNITE THAILAND's TOURISM policy by stimulating tourism during the off-season or Green Season from July to September 2024. In this regard, the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, through the Tourism Authority of Thailand (TAT) will organise the "Amazing Muay Thai Experience" event to invite Muay Thai enthusiasts to explore the origins of this Thai cultural heritage through the unique styles of ancient Muay Thai in four provinces which are known for their distinct schools of Muay Thai. Visitors will have the opportunity to experience the art of fighting under the guidance of local Muay Thai masters, creating value, and promoting tourism through Thai culture to encourage both Thai and foreign tourists to travel to various regions through Festival & Sports Tourism, opening up new travel experiences and creatively boosting the domestic economy.
According to Government Spokesperson, the "Amazing Muay Thai Experience" is one of the major activities that the Ministry of Tourism and Sports and the Tourism Authority of Thailand (TAT) are integrating with the public and private sectors to revive the Thai tourism industry during the off-season. They are presenting the identity of the art of "Muay Thai," one of Thailand's cultural heritages recognized worldwide, which has an allure that attracts tourists who want to study and appreciate the techniques and styles of this fighting art. This will be one of the strategies to attract tourists and promote Muay Thai as a tourism product that will result in increased stays and numbers of Thai and foreign tourists in the areas and regions hosting the activities, generating more tourism revenue.
The Amazing Muay Thai Experience 2024 activities will take place in four provinces, as follows:
1) “Muay Chaiya” on August 2-4, 2024, at the Chaloem Phrakiat 84th Birthday Anniversary Public Park, Chaiya District, Surat Thani Province.
2) “Muay Tha Sao” on August 16-18, 2024, at Wat Yai Tha Sao, Mueang Uttaradit District, Uttaradit Province.
3) “Muay Korat” on September 6-8, 2024, at the Meru Bhramathat, Phimai District, Nakhon Ratchasima Province.
4) “Muay Lopburi” on September 13-15, 2024, at King Narai’s Palace, Mueang Lopburi District, Lopburi Province.
The events will feature captivating activities such as Muay Thai fighting competitions with prizes, sacred tattoo ceremonies, traditional Muay Thai-related games like Muay Talay and Muay Taplae, fun arcade games to test Muay Thai skills, Muay Thai equipment shops, Muay Thai training courses, food stalls, and performances by famous artists.
Those interested in experiencing the valuable roots of Thai martial arts through the four ancient Muay Thai schools can get more details from the TAT Contact Center 1672 Travel Buddy, or by visiting the Facebook page at [Amazing Muay Thai Experience]: https://www.facebook.com/amazingmuaythaiexperience/
"The Prime Minister emphasizes the continuous efforts to promote Thai tourism, aiming to position Thailand as a Tourism Hub through national identity, combining creative activities that uniquely appeal to tourists, with cooperation from relevant government and private agencies to promote Thai tourism in every season in both major cities and tourist destinations nationwide. He stresses attracting tourists by presenting Thai culture, using Thailand’s charm as Soft Power to stimulate travel in Thailand, increasing economic flow and national income," said the Government Spokesperson.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/86259