รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM chairs auspicious ceremony of 5 religions to commemorate H.M. the King’s 6th cycle birthday anniversary on July 28, 2024


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 25 กรกฎาคม 2567
25/07/2567
พิมพ์
PM chairs auspicious ceremony of 5 religions to commemorate H.M. the King’s 6th cycle birthday anniversary on July 28, 2024
PM chairs auspicious ceremony of 5 religions to commemorate H.M. the King’s 6th cycle birthday anniversary on July 28, 2024
July 25, 2024, at 0900hrs, at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House, Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin and spouse, Mrs. Pakpilai Thavisin presided over the auspicious ceremony of 5 religions to commemorate His Majesty King Rama X’s 6th cycle birthday anniversary on July 28, 2024. Participating in the ceremony were religious leaders and representatives, members of the cabinet and spouses, chiefs of government agencies, and officials from Ministry of Culture and other concerned agencies. Deputy Government Spokesperson Kenika Ounjit disclosed gist as follows:
Upon arrival, the Prime Minister and spouse visited and paid homage to important religious objects of each religion, i.e., the Buddha's relics (Buddhism), Kangha, Kirpan and Kachhera (Sikhism), the Bible and, prayer music note book (Christianity), the Holy Quran (Islamism), and the history of the Triyampavai-Tripavai royal ceremony (Hinduism).
The Prime Minister, then, paid homage to His Majesty the King’s portrait by offering traditional cone-shaped floral receptacle before delivering a laudatory speech to glorify His Majesty’s royal honor which was ended with the band playing the royal anthem.
Auspicious ceremony of the 5 religions, then, began with the Buddhist rite chanting ceremony by 10 senior monks, led by Somdet Phra Buddhacarya from Wat Traimit temple (Buddhism), followed by the Du'a prayer by Mr. Prasarn Sricharoen, chairman of a panel of specialists at the Sheikhul Islam Office (Islamism); prayers by Father Somkiat Boon-anantabut from the Archdiocese of Bangkok Missionary Department (Christianity); Brahmin prayers by Phra Maha Raja Guru Surya Dhewes from Office of the Brahmins of Royal Ceremonial Affairs Division (Hinduism); and the Ardas prayer by Mr. Pinderpal Singh Madan, President of Siri Guru Singh Sabha (Sikhism).

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/86279