รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-“Tomyum Kung” inscribed as 'Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity' by UNESCO


วันพุธที่ 4 ธันวาคม 2567
04/12/2567
พิมพ์
“Tomyum Kung” inscribed as 'Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity' by UNESCO
“Tomyum Kung” inscribed as 'Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity' by UNESCO
On December 4, 2024, Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub announced that at 02:00 (Thailand time), in Asuncion, Paraguay, Thailand’s Tomyum Kung was inscribed on the Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity during the 19th Session of the Intergovernmental Committee for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage.
Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra sent a congratulatory message via video conference, expressing her honor and, on behalf of the Thai Government and all Thai people, extended her gratitude to the Republic of Paraguay for hosting the meeting, and to the Intergovernmental Committee for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage for inscribing Tomyum Kung.
The inscription of Tomyum Kung on "the Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity" is part of the 2003 Convention for the Safeguarding of the Intangible Cultural Heritage, aimed at raising awareness of the importance of intangible cultural heritage. Thailand’s Tomyum Kung, a healthy dish originating from riverside communities in central Thailand, has been passed down through generations. It is a world-renowned dish and a testament to Thailand’s cultural heritage and soft power. With its main ingredients of river prawns, fresh herbs, and farming, this dish is both nutritious and artfully crafted. It also reflects the Thai people's profound understanding of living in harmony with nature.
According to the Prime Minister, this understanding and local wisdom not only promote food security and improve health and well-being but also contribute to overall economic development, environmental sustainability, and social cohesion. Thailand, therefore, strives to raise awareness of the importance of intangible cultural heritage (ICH) at the local, national, and international levels and is ready to cooperate with other countries in safeguarding ICH for inclusive and sustainable development in the economic, social, and environmental dimensions.
The Prime Minister also took the opportunity to invite everyone to embark on this delectable and savory journey by trying Tomyum Kung at Thai restaurants worldwide or by searching for recipes online to cook it themselves.
The Government Spokesperson added that the inscription of Tomyum Kung would further enhance Thailand’s popularity among foreigners as a country rich in history, culture, traditions, and food. With its famous street food and well-known dishes, this recognition would add more value to other Made-in-Thailand products as well.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/91003