รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM meets with Chinese Ambassador to Thailand


วันศุกร์ที่ 6 มิถุนายน 2568
​PM meets with Chinese Ambassador to Thailand
​PM meets with Chinese Ambassador to Thailand
June 4, 2025, at 13.30 hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Han Zhiqiang, Ambassador of People’s Republic of China to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra on occasion of his completion of tenure. Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed appreciation for the Chinese Ambassador’s active role in coordinating between the two Governments throughout his tenure, which has helped strengthen Thailand-China relations at all levels and in all dimensions. She affirmed commitment of the Thai Government and relevant agencies to work closely with the incoming Chinese Ambassador to further enhance bilateral relations.
The Chinese Ambassador expressed pleasure to meet with the Prime Minister today. Throughout over 3.10 years of his duty in Thailand, he has witnessed continuous progress and closeness of Thai-Chinese relations, especially after the Prime Minister’s assumption of the position. He commended the Prime Minister for attaching importance to promoting Thai-Chinese relations and cooperation at both bilateral and multilateral levels, and thanked the Thai Government for its continuous support. The Chinese Ambassador expressed confidence that the Thai-Chinese relations will continue to progress well despite the changing global situation.
Both parties also discussed the following issues of cooperation:
In terms of tourism, China commits to continuously encourage its people to visit Thailand. The Chinese Ambassador mentioned the “Sawasdee Nihao” event, which was very well-received and attended by more than 350 Chinese companies. According to the Prime Minister, Thailand remains a major destination for tourists from all over the world. The Thai Government also strives to communicate more to the world on the country’s safety and positive images, as well as to promote foreign direct investment. Tourism is one of the most important mechanisms to connect the economy, culture, and friendship between people of the two countries.
On agricultural cooperation, the Prime Minister was pleased with the facilitation of China’s relevant agencies on Thailand’s export of durian, shortening exportation period from 7-8 days to 2 days. The Chinese authorities also exempted reinspection of durians exported by over 240 registered Thai durian exporters who earlier passed China’s quality criteria, which would greatly contribute to an increase of mutual trade values.
Regarding cooperation under the Mekong-Lancang framework, Thailand would be pleased to invite the Chinese Premier to attend the 5th Mekong-Lancang Cooperation Summit, to be hosted by Thailand at the end of this year, on which the Chinese Embassy in Bangkok has been closely liaising with the Thai Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Despite volatility and uncertainty of the current global situation, the Ambassador emphasized that relations between Thailand and China would continue to be reinforced. The two countries must work together through thick and thin to strengthen cooperation and overcome obstacles for shared happiness.
At the end of the meeting, the Prime Minister thanked the Chinese Ambassador for his sincerity and steadfast friendship, and stated that regardless of positions and titles, friendship, both between people and between countries, is contributed by sincere understanding and liaising. She wished the Chinese Ambassador and his wife success and happiness in all their future missions.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/97197