รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with Guatemalan Ambassador


วันพุธที่ 29 มีนาคม 2566
PM meets with Guatemalan Ambassador
PM meets with Guatemalan Ambassador
March 27, 2023, at 13.30 hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Carlos Humberto Jiménez Licona, Ambassador of the Republic of Guatemala to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his completion of tenure. Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister commended the Guatemalan Ambassador’s crucial role in the reopening of the Embassy of Guatemala in Thailand in 2019, as a result of which considerable advancement has been made to the relations between Thailand and Guatemala, as seen in regular exchange of visits and bilateral meetings, as well as cooperation between public/private sectors of the two countries. He was also pleased with various activities held throughout the year 2022 to celebrate the 65th anniversary of the diplomatic relations. The Thai Government also commits to continue promoting relations and cooperation with Guatemala in all dimensions, especially in economic cooperation and cooperation for development.
The Guatemalan Ambassador expressed honor to have been tenured in Thailand during the past 3 years, and affirmed Guatemala’s commitment to forge cooperation with Thailand, especially in trade and investment, and tourism. He is confident that cooperation between the two countries could help push forward trade activities in Latin America.
Both parties also discussed other issues of mutual interest:
On economic cooperation, both the Prime Minister and Guatemalan Ambassador agreed to increase mutual trade value. Thailand I interested in importing Guatemala’s potential products, i.e., fertilizer products and Guatemalan coffee, while the Ambassador agreed to exchange economic cooperation in the areas of mutual interest. The Prime Minister was pleased to learn that the Guatemalan Ambassador has recently attended a seminar on promotion of economic partnership with Thailand through BCG economic development, which could boost trade and investment cooperation in environmental-friendly business areas. The seminar was also attended by representatives of other Latin American embassies in Thailand.
With regard to technical cooperation for development, the Prime Minister affirmed Thailand’s readiness to discuss with Guatemala on the possibility of developing a cooperation plan for development in the areas of mutual interest, i.e., agriculture, alternative development, ecotourism, etc. He also commended the cooperation of Thailand and Guatemala in the field of archeology. The Guatemalan Ambassador agreed, and believed that regular meetings and exchange of experiences would further strengthen tangible cooperation for development which may be built upon for the development in other dimensions.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/66695