รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Bayer AG to cooperate with Thailand in medical and agricultural technologies


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 23 มกราคม 2568
23/01/2568
พิมพ์
Bayer AG to cooperate with Thailand in medical and agricultural technologies
Bayer AG to cooperate with Thailand in medical and agricultural technologies
January 21, 2025, at 1500hrs (Davos local time), in Davos, Swiss Federation, during her attendance at the World Economic Forum Annual Meeting 2025 (WEF AM25), Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra met with Mr. Stefan Oelrich, Board of Management and Head of the Pharmaceuticals Division of Bayer AG. Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister stated about the Government’s policies that focus on agricultural development, especially economic crops (e.g., rice and corn), and promotion of new innovations for public health development, both medicine and health. The Government’s “30-baht Get Treatment Anywhere” scheme allows Thai people to have more access to public health services and medicine, including medical research and development. The Prime Minister hoped to forge cooperation with Bayer, a company with expertise in healthcare and agriculture.
Thailand strives to promote human resource development through upskilling and reskilling to accommodate future industries, enhance opportunities, and generate more revenues to the country. The Thai Government has just implemented the "Homes for Thais" scheme to provide affordable housing for the Thai people, as part of its policy on uplifting Thai people’s quality of life.
Mr. Stefan Oelrich congratulated the Prime Minister on her assumption of the position. Thailand is Bayer’s important investment base, and the company would like to cooperate with the country in the fields of medicine, health, and agriculture. The Prime Minister’s vision is highly valued in investing in human resources, which will help Thailand advance rapidly.
One of the most important industries is pharmaceutical and healthcare. The company is confident that new technologies and advanced AI can transform healthcare, and would be pleased to cooperate with Thailand in supporting patient access to treatment and quality treatment innovations, uplifting patients’ quality of life, and increasing farmers’ productivity, especially the country’s economic crops, through agricultural innovations and technologies.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/92642