รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with WEF Founder and Chairman of the Board of Trustees


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 23 มกราคม 2568
23/01/2568
พิมพ์
PM meets with WEF Founder and Chairman of the Board of Trustees
PM meets with WEF Founder and Chairman of the Board of Trustees
January 22, 2025, at 0900hrs (Davos local time), at Davos Congress Centre, Davos, Swiss Federation, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra had a bilateral discussion with Professor Klaus Schwab, Founder and Chairman of the Board of Trustees for the World Economic Forum (WEF). Gist of the meeting is as follows:
The Prime Minister was pleased to meet Professor Klaus Schwab again after the previous meeting at the ASEAN Summit in Vientiane. She thanked him for the invitation to attend the WEF, and would present Thailand's "soft powers" at this meeting. Thailand and WEF have long been strong partners and Thailand is ready to continue to expand cooperation with WEF in areas of mutual benefits.
Professor Klaus Schwab was pleased to meet and discuss with the Prime Minister. He expressed confidence on Thailand’s potential, and committed to expand cooperation with Thailand, especially in the areas of innovation, technology, agriculture and food, through the implementation of various projects and activities.
Both sides also discussed the organization of joint activities. The Prime Minister was very pleased that Thailand had the opportunity to showcase its potential through various activities at the World Economic Forum this year. Thailand is also interested in hosting the WEF Special Meeting in 2026 and the “Young Global Leaders’ Summit” to empower youths, which is in line with a policy that the government emphasizes to enhance opportunities for developing a creative economy for the new generations, foster new ideas, and create innovations at the global level.
The Prime Minister took the occasion to invite Professor Klaus Schwab to be a keynote speaker at the ACD High-level Conference on Global Architecture, to be held in May 2025 in Phuket.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/92649