รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with Chief Adviser of Bangladeshi Government


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 23 มกราคม 2568
23/01/2568
พิมพ์
PM meets with Chief Adviser of Bangladeshi Government
PM meets with Chief Adviser of Bangladeshi Government
January 22, 2025, at 1015hrs (Davos local time), Davos, Swiss Federation, during her attendance at the World Economic Forum Annual Meeting 2025 (WEF AM25), Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra had a bilateral discussion with Prof. Muhammad Yunus, Chief Adviser of the Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh. Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed gist of the meeting is as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure to meet with Professor Yunus. Thailand and Bangladesh have had cordial relations, especially economic relations and cooperation, with Bangladesh being Thailand’s second largest trading partner in the South Asian region and a potential investment destination. Many Thai private firms have invested in Bangladesh for over 20 years. Both sides agreed to accelerate the Free Trade Agreement (FTA) negotiation between Thailand and Bangladesh to help increase trade volume between the two countries and to achieve the target investment value of approximately USD 2 billion.
Professor Yunus expressed confidence on strengthening economic cooperation between Thailand and Bangladesh, both in terms of trade and investment, and commended Thailand's success in applying the concept of microfinance to the implementation of village and urban community fund project, which promotes low-income earners’ access to village funds to increase job opportunity for a better life.
Thailand and Bangladesh have a similar approach in empowering the new generations and youths to play their role in both economic, social, and political development. This is to strengthen the country’s foundation to cope with rapid changes in the future.
The Prime Minister also invited Professor Yunus to be a keynote speaker at the Young Gen Forum to be organized during the 6th BIMSTEC Summit, hosted by Thailand on April 4, 2025 in Bangkok. Thailand will handover BIMSTEC chairmanship to Bangladesh, and the Prime Minister expressed confidence that Bangladesh would play an important role in promoting various cooperation in the region as the BIMSTECH chair.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/92665