รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM: Govt strives to create equal opportunities for all


วันอาทิตย์ที่ 8 กันยายน 2567
08/09/2567
พิมพ์
PM: Govt strives to create equal opportunities for all
PM: Govt strives to create equal opportunities for all
September 7, 2024, at 1150hrs, at the Inner Santi Maitri Building, Government House, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra led the cabinet to give the press briefing following a special session of the cabinet meeting. Gist is as follows:
According to the Prime Minister, His Majesty the King has graciously given his saying to her and the new cabinet after the oath taking ceremony to bless the cabinet with good will and determination to perform their duties as sworn in for the best interest of the country and people. This is the greatest honor and pride for her and the Cabinet, and she would heed and follow His Majesty's saying in administering the state.
The Prime Minister expressed readiness to perform duties to the best of her ability. The cabinet members are from political parties of diverse backgrounds, and have been elected by people from different regions and ages. They commit to work against time to serve the country and people whom they represent.
The Prime Minister and cabinet members will synergize their abilities to ensure efficiency in performing duties, and to turn diversity into strength. She believes that “opportunity” can be created. Her government is ready, not tomorrow but this minute onward, to work to create equal opportunity and restore confidence toward the country.
Today, the country has been facing with chronic problems and challenges which the Government commits to solve in an immediate manner through implementation of both short, medium, and long-term policies. Problems to be urgently addressed are such as debt restructuring, assistance to SMEs and the vulnerabilities, and economic stimulation, etc. Medium and long-term policy implementations include building upon existing industries, promoting creative economy and soft power, developing transport infrastructure, public utilities and manpower. Detail will be elaborated at the delivery of policy statement on September 12-13, 2024.
The Prime Minister affirmed that this Government will continue the work of the former Government under Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin, especially economic stimulation and tourism promotion.She also emphasized the importance to immediately address the issues related to agro products and flood situation, and instructed all government agencies to keep on with the activities in celebration and honor of His Majesty the King’s 6th cycle birthday anniversary.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/87813