รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Press Statement for His Excellency Mr. Srettha Thavisin, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand


วันศุกร์ที่ 26 เมษายน 2567
26/04/2567
พิมพ์
Press Statement for His Excellency Mr. Srettha Thavisin, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand
On the Occasion of the Official Visit to Thailand of Her Excellency Sheikh Hasina (เชค ฮาซีนา), Prime Minister of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh on 26 april 2024
Press Conference by His Excellency Mr. Srettha Thavisin, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand on 26 April 2024 at 12.15 hrs.
at the Inner Santi Maitri, Government House
Your   Excellency  Sheikh   Hasina  (เชค ฮาซีนา), Prime Minister of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh, Members of the press,
Ladies and gentlemen,
I  am  deeply  honored  to  warmly  welcome Your Excellency and your delegation on your first official visit to Thailand.
Thailand and Bangladesh share a long-standing friendship since 1972. Given our historical and cultural affinities, this visit reaffirms our commitment to further strengthen our bilateral relations through trade and investment, development cooperation, and tourism.  Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina (เชค ฮาซีนา) and I had substantive discussions on many issues of mutual interest. We reiterated our commitment to enhance cooperation in various areas for the mutual benefit of our two countries. On trade, we welcome our bilateral trade volume at1.2 billion USD. We believe that both sides can do more to expand our economic cooperation.
Trade and investment facilitation was highlighted during our discussion to increase trade and investment volumes, as well as to create a resilient supply chain. I encouraged the Bangladeshi side to provide investment promotion schemes and ease of doing business measures, which will facilitate and attract more Thai investors. I am pleased that Thailand and Bangladesh are committed to working together towards a Free Trade Agreement (FTA). I believe that the Letter of Intent signed today will help to expedite the negotiation process.
Three important memoranda of understanding and one  agreement  were  also  signed  today: namely(1) The Agreement on Visa Exemption for Holders of Official Passports will facilitate more travel between Thai and Bangladeshi officials; (2) The MoU on Energy Cooperation will help materialize our true potential from energy cooperation; (3) The MoU on Cooperation and Mutual Assistance in Customs Matters will lead to effective border control and anti-smuggling operations and; (4) The MoU on Cooperation in the Field of Tourism will allow us to exchange knowledge, experiences, and best practices in this area.
Both sides also aim to elevate cooperation in agriculture, in particular halal and food processing sectors. We will collaborate to make use of our resources to ensure food security for our peoples. We also attach importance to the improvement of infrastructure and connectivity. The commencement of direct shipping between Ranong Port and Chittagong (จิตตะกอง) Port will enhance our maritime connectivity and help bolster our economic activities.
On medical tourism, I have reassured the Prime Minister that Thailand will continue to provide excellent medical services, at competitive prices for Bangladeshis seeking treatment in Thailand. We also discussed the possibility of cooperation in training and capacity building for Bangladeshi medical personnel. On educational  cooperation,  Thailand  proposed a collaboration on vocational education. We are glad to see mutual commitment to foster work-integrated education to develop our workforces.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Beyond our bilateral engagement, Thailand will host the BIMSTEC Summit later this year; while Bangladesh will become the next BIMSTEC chair. We share the same view and vision that BIMSTEC is a key driver of regional economic growth, and a mechanism to promote closer bonds between the two regions. With a combined total population of 1.8 billion people, there is huge potential for BIMSTEC to achieve much more.
Thailand appreciates Bangladesh’s role in providing humanitarian assistance for displaced Rohingyas since 2017. Thailand has always given our support towards Bangladesh’s endeavor in order to achieve a sustainable solution to this matter. Lastly, on behalf of the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand, I would like to express my firm commitment to drive cooperation and encourage exchanges in all dimensions, at both government and public levels. And I thank Her Excellency Sheikh Hasina for making this historic visit.
Thank you.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/82216