รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on July 1, 2025. 

วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 10 กรกฎาคม 2568
10/07/2568
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on July 1, 2025.
The cabinet met on July 1, 2025.
Title: Royal Decree on Re-Election of Member of House of Representatives for Sisaket Province, Constituency 5, B.E. ....
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on Re-Election of Member of House of Representatives for for Sisaket Province, Constituency 5, B.E. .... to fill in vacancy, following the passing of former MP Amornthep Sommai in accordance with Article 101 (2) of the Constitution of Thailand.
Gist
The re-election shall be held within 45 days after the vacancy (by August 10, 2025). It is expected that the reelection will take place on August 10, 2025.
Title: Instrument of Acceptance on Addendum to the Treaty on the Southeast Asia Nuclear Weapon – Free Zone
The cabinet approved the development of the Instrument of Acceptance on Addendum to the Treaty on the Southeast Asia Nuclear Weapon – Free Zone, as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
The Cabinet has earlier approved on October 1, 2024 the draft addendum to the Treaty on the Southeast Asia Nuclear Weapon – Free Zone, which stipulates that the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste may submit an instrument of accession to the Treaty. Later, on May 25, 2025, the Southeast Asia Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone Commission, which consists of all ASEAN foreign ministers, resolved to approve the addendum. The next procedure will be for ASEAN member countries, including Thailand, to submit an instrument of acceptance of the addendum to the Treaty in order for the addendum to enter into force. Therefore, Ministry of Foreign Affairs requested that the cabinet consider approving Instrument of Acceptance on Addendum to the Treaty on the Southeast Asia Nuclear Weapon – Free Zone.
Title: Outcome document of the Fourth International Conference on Financing for Development (FfD4)
The cabinet approved in principle the draft outcome document of the Fourth International Conference on Financing for Development (FfD4). Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Foreign Affairs or a representative is authorized to adopt the outcome document.
Gist
The FfD4, which is under the United Nations framework, is an important platform for the interests of the developing countries that are struggling to access finance to achieve the SDGs in the next five years.
The outcome document of the Fourth International Conference on Financing for Development (FfD4) demonstrates political commitment to promote mobilization and allocation of funds from various sources, both public and private, both domestically and internationally, to support sustainable development and achieve the SDGs by 2030.
Title: Draft Joint Statement of the 1st EU-Thailand Joint Committee Meeting
The cabinet approved the draft Joint Statement of the 1st EU-Thailand Joint Committee Meeting. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Foreign Affairs or a representative is authorized to adopt the outcome document together with EU representative.
Gist
The EU-Thailand Joint Committee was established under the EU-Thailand Partnership and Cooperation Agreement (PCA) which serves as the primary framework for advancing the EU–Thailand partnership, aiming to promote peace, stability, and prosperity in both regions and globally.
The meeting provided an opportunity to discuss a broad range of topics relevant to bilateral relations and exchange views on regional and global developments. The EU and Thailand reiterated their determination to strengthen bilateral relations through practical cooperation under the PCA.
Thailand and EU will take turn hosting the meetings of the EU-Thailand Joint Committee. The first meeting will be held in Brussels, Belgium on July 2, 2025.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/98318