รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on August 19, 2025

วันอังคารที่ 26 สิงหาคม 2568
26/08/2568
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on August 19, 2025
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Ministerial Announcement on Marine and Coastal Resource Protection in Ko Khai, Chumkho Sub-district, Pathiu District, Chumphon Province, B.E. ....
The cabinet approved the draft Ministerial Announcement on Marine and Coastal Resource Protection in the Area of Ko Khai, Chumkho Sub-district, Pathiu District, Chumphon Province, B.E. ...., as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment. The Ministry shall take opinions of Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Interior, Office of Council of State, and Office of National Economic and Social Development Council into consideration.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Announcement on Marine and Coastal Resource Protection in the Area of Ko Khai, Chumkho Sub-district, Pathiu District, Chumphon Province, B.E. ...., is issued by virtue of the Act on the Promotion of Marine and Coastal Resources Management, B.E. 2558 (2015) to put in place measures to protect marine and coastal resources in the area of Ko Khai in Chumphon province. The purpose is to preserve, protect, and conserve coral reefs, and to set up system for sustainable use fo marine and coastal resources, as well as restore marine and coastal ecosystem. The draft Ministerial Announcement will be effective for 5 years from the date it is taken into effect.
Title: Draft Ministerial Announcement on Marine and Coastal Resource Protection in Ko Saket, Map Ta Phut Sub-district, Mueang Rayong District, Rayong Province, B.E. ....
The cabinet approved the draft Ministerial Announcement on Marine and Coastal Resource Protection in the Area of Ko Saket, Map Ta Phut Sub-district, Mueang Rayong District, Rayong Province, B.E. ...., as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment. The Ministry shall take opinions of Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Interior, and Office of Council of State into consideration.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Announcement on Marine and Coastal Resource Protection in the Area of Ko Saket, Map Ta Phut Sub-district, Mueang Rayong District, Rayong Province, B.E. ...., is issued by virtue of the Act on the Promotion of Marine and Coastal Resources Management, B.E. 2558 (2015) to replace the Order of Department of Marine and Coastal Resources (No. 673/2564), regarding the protection of marine and coastal resources in Ko Saket, which officially expired on May 13, 2024. The draft Announcement is aimed to preserve, protect, and conserve coral reefs, and to set up system for sustainable use fo marine and coastal resources, as well as restore marine and coastal ecosystem in the area of Ko Saket, Map Ta Phut Sub-district, Mueang Rayong District, Rayong Province. The draft Ministerial Announcement will be effective for 5 years from the date it is taken into effect.
Title: Extension of timeframe and increase of budget framework for construction of Huay Krok Khian Reservoir Project in Chachoengsao Province
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives:
Approved extension of implementation period for the construction of Huay Krok Khian Reservoir Project in Chachoengsao Province from 4 years (FY2021 – 2024) to 6 years (FY2021 – 2026)
Approved increase of the project’s budget framework from 1,880 million Baht to 1,980 million Baht
Gist
The Huay Krok Khian Reservoir Project has been implemented since 2021. However, the project is facing delays because of land acquisition problems. By the time the problems are solved, land value has become higher than the value estimated in the preliminary design. As a result, the land compensation value had to be increased. Coupling with the COVID-19 situation and an increase in construction materials and fuel prices, the budget framework for the project has to be increased.
Title: Draft Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in Higher Education, Science, Technology, Research, and Innovation between the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Technology, Research, and Innovation:
Approved the draft Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in Higher Education, Science, Technology, Research, and Innovation between the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, the Ministry may seek consultation with the Department of Treaties and Legal Affairs under Ministry of Foreign Affairs and proceed accordingly.
Authorized Minister of Higher Education, Science, Technology, Research, and Innovation or a representative as signatory of the MOU.
Gist
The draft Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in Higher Education, Science, Technology, Research, and Innovation between the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland stipulates elevation of cooperation in higher education, science, research, and innovation between both parties, and direction of cooperation in the areas that are relevant with mutual interests and benefits.
Areas of cooperation include: Business and economics; Law; Health and life sciences; Engineering; and Climate and environment. Scopes of cooperation include promoting joint research and innovation opportunities for problem solutions at both local and global levels, and fostering excellence in teaching and assessment through exchanges, assistance, and support.
Title: Request for approval of ASEAN Sports Fund Terms of Reference and Guidelines of the Contribution and Utilisation of the ASEAN Sports Fund
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Tourism and Sports:
Approved the draft ASEAN Sports Fund Terms of Reference and Guidelines of the Contribution and Utilisation of the ASEAN Sports Fund. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against the cabinet’s approved principle, the Ministry, through Department of Physical Education, may proceed and inform the cabinet later of the amendments.
Authorized Minister of Tourism and Sports or a representative to adopt the documents
Approved in principle for Ministry of Tourism and Sports, through Department of Physical Education, to make an annual contribution to the ASEAN Sports Fund at the rate specified in the fund's draft Terms of Reference, which is US$5,000 (approximately 200,000 Baht, based on an exchange rate of 1 USD = 40 Baht), plus an international transfer fee of 1,200 Baht, for a total of 201,200 Baht per year.
Title: Draft Document on Elevation of Thailand - Kingdom of Sweden Relations to Strategic Partnership
The cabinet approved the draft Document on Elevation of Thailand - Kingdom of Sweden Relations to Strategic Partnership. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against the cabinet’s approved principle, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Foreign Affairs or a representative is authorized as signatory to the document.
Gist
The draft Document on Elevation of Thailand - Kingdom of Sweden Relations to Strategic Partnership is aimed to demonstrate political commitment to promote and drive forward cooperation in the areas of mutual interest. Areas of cooperation include establishing a mechanism for strategic political bilateral discussions; trade and investment; and defense cooperation.
The draft document will be signed during the official visit of Thai Minister of Foreign Affairs to Sweden during August 24–26, 2025.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/100114