รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on June 17, 2025. 

วันศุกร์ที่ 27 มิถุนายน 2568
26/06/2568
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on June 17, 2025.
The cabinet met on June 17, 2025.
Title: Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Revenue Taxes (No. …) B.E. … (Tax measures to promote Thailand as global digital asset hub)
The cabinet approved in principle the Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Revenue Taxes (No. …) B.E. … (Tax measures to promote Thailand as global digital asset hub), as proposed by Ministry of Finance.
Gist
The draft Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Revenue Taxes (No. …) B.E. … (Tax measures to promote Thailand as global digital asset hub) prescribes exemption of personal income tax for capital gains from the sale of digital assets (cryptocurrencies or digital tokens) through digital asset brokers/dealers licensed under the Digital Asset Business Act. This will take effect from January 1, 2025 to December 31, 2029. This is to promote investment in digital assets in Thailand, and to enhance competitiveness of Thailand's as world’s digital asset hub.
Title: Draft Ministry of Industry’s announcement on prohibition of establishing or expanding factories producing reinforced concrete steel bars or billets of all sizes in all areas in the Kingdom, B.E. ....
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministry of Industry’s announcement on prohibition of establishing or expanding factories producing reinforced concrete steel bars or billets of all sizes in all areas in the Kingdom, B.E. ...., as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
The draft Ministry of Industry’s announcement on prohibition of establishing or expanding factories producing reinforced concrete steel bars or billets of all sizes in all areas in the Kingdom, B.E. ...., prescribes extension of banning period for the building/expansion of reinforced concrete steel bars and billets manufacturing plants for another 5 years from January 10, 2025 to January 9, 2030. This is to address over supply and underutilization of reinforced concrete steel bars and billets in a bid to maintain stability of domestic steel industry and ensure its positive impact on the country's economy and employment.
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Chiang Mai province (Mae Taeng District’s Kuet Chang, Inthakhil, San Mahaphon, and Khi Lek Subdistricts; and San Sai District’s Mae Faek Subdistrict), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Chiang Mai province (Mae Taeng District’s Kuet Chang, Inthakhil, San Mahaphon, and Khi Lek Subdistricts; and San Sai District’s Mae Faek Subdistrict), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives. The Ministry shall take comments of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, Official of Council of State, and National Economic and Social Development Council into consideration.
Gist
The Royal Decree prescribes areas in Chiang Mai province (Mae Taeng District’s Kuet Chang, Inthakhil, San Mahaphon, and Khi Lek Subdistricts; and San Sai District’s Mae Faek Subdistrict) to be expropriated for the construction of Mae Taeng - Mae Ngad Diversion Tunnel and associate structures, and Mae Ngad - Mae Taeng water pipeline system and associate structures under the project to increase water volume in Mae Kuang Udomthara Dam in Chiang Mai Province. Land survey and appropriation shall commence within 180 days after the Royal Decree is in effect.
Title: Thailand’s Bid to host FIA FORMULA ONE WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP from 2028 to 2032 (5 years)
The cabinet acknowledged the feasibility study on Thailand’s Bid to host FIA FORMULA ONE WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP from 2028 to 2032 (5 years) and the study outcome on detail of appropriate racetrack and investment in the racetrack. It also approved in principle for Thailand to bid for the hosting of the FIA FORMULA ONE WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP for the years 2028 - 2032 (5 years). Related budget framework shall be planned according to the recommendations of the Budget Bureau, and must later be submitted to the cabinet.
Gist
Outcome of the feasibility study on Thailand’s Bid to host FIA FORMULA ONE WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP from 2028 to 2032 (5 years) is as follows:
Details
Objectives
- To generate income, stimulate economy and create added economic value - To promote Thailand as destination for world's leading sports competitions and a world class event hub - To promote Thailand’s positive image and tourism - To enhance experiences of those involved in motorsport
Event timeframe and schedule
- 3 days per year for 5 years (from 2028 - 2032) - a Friday to Sunday in March or September
Potential venues
The feasibility study initially explores 8 following areas in Chatuchak district:
- The area of Krungthep Aphiwat Central Station, approximately 838 rai - The area of Mochit 2 Bus Terminal, approximately 109 rai - The area of Chatuchak Weekend Market, approximately 241 rai - The area of Queen Sirikit Park, approximately 207 rai - The area of Chatuchak Park, approximately 163 rai - The area of Wachirabenchatat Park (Rotfai Park), approximately 418 rai - The area of PTT Public Company Limited, approximately 45 rai - The area of the State Railway of Thailand, approximately 146 rai
Area utilization plan
- Safety/Ticket Check points: Various points within the racetrack area, i.e. Chatuchak Park, Wachirabenchatat Park (Rotfai Park), and Queen Sirikit Park, as well as surrounding areas, i.e., Chatuchak Weekend Market, Mochit 2 Bus Terminal, State Railway of Thailand area, and Chatuchak Park parking area.
- Fan Zones: (1) Queen Sirikit Park, covering 53,440 square meters, (2) Chatuchak Park, covering 24,000 square meters, (3) Rodfai Park, covering 13,000 square meters, and (4) west of Mochit 2 Bus Terminal, covering 22,000 square meters.
-Grandstands: Various spots within the racetrack area with the total of 93,500 seats.
- Paddock Club: a VIP zone located on the Pit Building with the total of 4,000 seats.
- VIP Hospitality area: a special VIP seats on the Grandstands in a special position.
Area accessibility
- Eastward: MRT, BTS, and private cars (buses not recommended as roads are close and used for racetracks)- For A1 and A2 Fan Zone areas - Northward: BTS Ha Yaek Lat Phrao, MRT Phahon Yothin, bus or private cars- For Grandstand on the north and northeast sides (B1 B2 and B3) - Westward: MRT or SRT, or private cars (via expressway)- For Grandstands and Paddock Club at the finish line (C1 and C2) - Southward: MRT (Kamphaeng Phet Station), bus or private cars- For Grandstand on the west and southwest sides (D1)
Expected number of attendants
Number of attendants is highly likely to reach an average of 407,132 (lowest: 81,918 and highest: 598,983) in 2028, comprising 314,509 domestic attendants, and 92,622 overseas attendants
Title: Postponement of 3/2025 cabinet retreat
The cabinet acknowledged the proposal of the Prime Minister’s Secretariat on the postponement of 3/2025 cabinet retreat in Phitsanulok province, and field visits to the Lower Northern Provincial Cluster I (Tak, Phitsanulok, Phetchanbun, Sukhothai, and Uttaradit).
Gist
The 3/2025 cabinet retreat was previously scheduled on June 23-24, 2025. Rescheduled dates will later be announced.
Title: Request for approval of outcome documents of ASEAN Education Ministers' Roundtable and ASEAN Higher Education Ministers' Roundtable
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Education:
1. Approved 2 outcome documents of the ASEAN Higher Education Ministers' Roundtable, namely, 1) Langkawi Joint Statement of the ASEAN Education Ministers on ASEAN Out-Of-School Children and Youth (OOSCY); and 2) ASEAN Leaders’ Declaration on Higher Education: Towards an Inclusive, Sustainable and Prosperous ASEAN.
2. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Education may proceed and inform the cabinet later of the change
3. Authorized Minister of Education or a representative to adopt the Langkawi Joint Statement of the ASEAN Education Ministers on ASEAN Out-Of-School Children and Youth at the ASEAN Education Ministers' Roundtable to be held on June 19, 2025
4. Authorized Minister of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation or a representative to endorse ASEAN Leaders’ Declaration on Higher Education: Towards an Inclusive, Sustainable and Prosperous ASEAN at the ASEAN Higher Education Ministers' Roundtable to be held on June 19, 2025
5. Approved Minister of Social Development and Human Security, in his capacity as Chair of the ASEAN Civil Society and Culture Council, or a representative, to co-endorse the Langkawi Joint Statement of the ASEAN Education Ministers on ASEAN Out-Of-School Children and Youth and ASEAN Leaders’ Declaration on Higher Education: Towards an Inclusive, Sustainable and Prosperous ASEAN at the 44th ASEAN Civil Society and Culture Council Meeting in October 2025.
6. Approved the Prime Minister or a representative to note Langkawi Joint Statement of the ASEAN Education Ministers on ASEAN Out-Of-School Children and Youth, and adopt the ASEAN Leaders’ Declaration on Higher Education: Towards an Inclusive, Sustainable and Prosperous ASEAN together with ASEAN Leaders at the 47th ASEAN Summit in November 2025.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/97868