รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on July 22, 2025. 

วันพุธที่ 30 กรกฎาคม 2568
30/07/2568
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on July 22, 2025.
The cabinet met on July 22, 2025.
Title: 2nd action plan to solve problem of particulate matter pollution (2025-2027)
The cabinet approved the 2nd action plan to drive the national agenda on ‘solving the problem of particulate matter pollution’ for 2025-2027 and the next five years, as proposed by Ministry of National Resources and Environment.
Gist
The cabinet, in its meeting dated October 1, 2019, has originally approved the 1st action plan to drive the national agenda on ‘solving the problem of particulate matter pollution’ (2019-2024), and assigned relevant agencies to prepare detailed activities for the implementation of the action plan, i.e., enhancing area-based management efficiency, preventing and reducing pollution at the sources, and increasing pollution management efficiency.
Upon completion of the 1st action plan, after-action review and lesson-learned visualizing have been carried out through public hearing in 4 areas: the lower Northern region, the upper Northern region, the Northeastern region, and the Central region, and the results have been used in the development of the 2nd action plan.
The 2nd action plan to drive the national agenda on ‘solving the problem of particulate matter pollution’ for 2025-2027 primarily aims at addressing transnational pollution, and leveraging various mechanisms, i.e., technologies, laws, regulations, economic measures, and other necessary measures, to prevent and reduce pollution at the sources which cover urban areas, forests, and agricultural areas.
Title: Outcome of Integrity & Transparency Assessment (ITA) for 2024
The cabinet acknowledged and approved the following proposal of the National Anti-Corruption Commission (NACC):
Acknowledged outcome of the Integrity & Transparency Assessment (ITA) for 2024
Assigned relevant agencies to support and assist government agencies of which the ITA outcomes have not met the targets set, especially on the issues of anti-corruption and misconduct, in a bid to improve their performance and meet the target values set for Fiscal Year B.E. 2568 (2025).Gist
A total of 8,325 government agencies nationwide underwent the ITA for FY2024 which was conducted through the Integrity and Transparency Assessment System (ITAS), accessible at https://itas.nacc.go.th, starting from January 1, 2024. The assessment outcomes were officially announced on July 30, 2024.
The outcome shows an average score of 93.05 points, which is 2.86 points higher than the previous year. Out of 8,325 government agencies assessed, 7,696 agencies, or 92.44%, passed the ITA with scores meeting the target values set in the Master Plan under the National Strategy. This is an 11.50% increase from the previous year. However, 629 government agencies (7.56%) did not meet the target ITA scores as stipulated in the Master Plan under the National Strategy. These agencies' ITA outcomes were categorized as "needs improvement" or "urgent improvement." Majority of these agencies scored below the target for Indicator 4: Utilization of Government Assets, Indicator 8: Improvement of Work Systems, and Indicator 9: Information Disclosure.
Title: Draft Ministerial Declaration for 2025 High-level Political Forum on Sustainable Development (HLPF)
The cabinet approved the draft Ministerial Declaration for 2025 High-level Political Forum on Sustainable Development (HLPF-2025), as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
The United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) has hosted the HLPF-2025 during July 14-23, 2025 at the UN Headquarters under the theme: “Advancing sustainable, inclusive, science- and evidence-based solutions for the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and its Sustainable Development Goals for leaving no one behind”.The draft Ministerial Declaration for 2025 High-level Political Forum on Sustainable Development (HLPF) stipulates guidelines to achieve the 2030 SDGs, e.g., promoting sustained, inclusive, and sustainable economic growth, and productive employment; enhancing prevention, preparedness, and response to public health emergencies; promoting gender equality, including addressing gender-based violence and discrimination against women and girls, etc.
The draft declaration will be adopted at HLPF-2025 on July 23, 2025.
Title: 15th meeting of the Conference of the Contracting Parties for Ramsar Convention on Wetlands (Ramsar COP15)
The cabinet acknowledged and approved the following proposals of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment:
Acknowledged component of the Thai delegation to Ramsar COP15
Approved the draft Thailand’s position paper for Ramsar COP15
Approved the draft statement for High-Level Ministerial Segment at Ramsar COP15
Approved in principle the draft Victoria Falls Declaration and authorized head of the Thai delegation to adopt the draft Declaration
Should there be a need for an amendment of the above documents, in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, head of the Thai delegation may exercise judgment and proceed with the amendment without having to propose to the cabinet again.Gist
The Thai delegation for Ramsar COP15 is led by Permanent Secretary of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment.
The draft statement for High-Level Ministerial Segment at Ramsar COP15 prescribes Thailand’s prioritization on conservation and rehabilitation of wetlands at all levels. The draft Thailand’s position paper for Ramsar COP15 prescribes Thailand’s position on information sharing on water population count data to ensure up-to-date information and prevent duplicate counting, among others. The draft Victoria Falls Declaration stipulates guidelines on the implementations related wetlands of member states.
Title: Joint Declaration on the Establishment of Thailand - India Strategic Partnership
The cabinet acknowledged the signing of the Joint Declaration on the Establishment of Thailand - India Strategic Partnership and related revision. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
The cabinet has earlier approved on April 1, 2025 the draft Joint Declaration on the Establishment of Thailand - India Strategic Partnership, which is aimed at elevating relations to a strategic partnership and outlining future directions for Thai Indian relations to increase opportunities, foster closer cooperation, and respond to mutual challenges. These include political cooperation, defense and security cooperation, and economic, trade and investment cooperation.
Later on April 3, 2024, the signing of the Joint Declaration took place during the official visit of Prime Minister of India to Thailand. A revision of the Joint Declaration has been made in parts that are not gist nor against national interest. Ministry of Foreign Affairs, therefore, resubmitted the Joint Declaration to the cabinet for its acknowledgement.
Title: Nomination of an individual for the position of Governor of the Bank of Thailand
The cabinet approved the proposal of Ministry of Finance to appoint Mr. Vitai Ratanakorn as Governor of the Bank of Thailand to be effective from October 1, 2025 onward. He will replace the incumbent Governor Sethaput Suthiwartnarueput whose term will end on September 30, 2025.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/99069