รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on July 8, 2025.

วันอังคารที่ 15 กรกฎาคม 2568
15/07/2568
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on July 8, 2025.
The cabinet met on July 8, 2025.
Title: Request to withdraw the draft Entertainment Complex Act, B.E. ....
The cabinet approved the withdrawal of the draft Entertainment Complex Act, B.E. .... from the House of Representatives, as proposed by Ministry of Finance.
Gist
Ministry of Finance proposed that since the Royal Command to remove ministers from their positions and appoint ministers was announced on June 30, 2025, and the draft Entertainment Complex Act, B.E. .... contains issues related to the social sector, it is appropriate for the new cabinet to provide its opinions on the relevant parts. Therefore, the draft Entertainment Complex Act, B.E. .... should be withdrawn from the House of Representatives' consideration for further action.
Title: Registration of citizens with no smartphone
The cabinet approved the project to survey and register the people who do not own a smartphone, and assigned Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Digital Economy and Society, and Digital Government Development Agency (Public Organization) (DGA) to work on an appropriate project timeframe. This is as proposed by Ministry of Finance.
Gist
The project is aimed to provide the Government with information on citizens who do not own smartphones and who cannot get access to Government policies or measures that require registration or verification through Government applications or smartphone applications. Relevant agencies can also develop government policies and services based on the information in an appropriate and efficient manner.Under the project, citizens who do not own smartphones will be able to register themselves at the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives, Government Savings Bank, Government Housing Bank, Islamic Bank of Thailand, district offices, Pattaya City Office, municipality offices, post offices or other agencies as determined by Ministry of Digital Economy and Society.
To verify smartphone ownership, DGA will check National Identification Number (NID) of the registrants with all mobile phone service providers. Those who have a history of accumulated internet data usage of no more than 500 Megabytes (MB) per registrant's phone number over a period of 90 days from the date DGA sends the information for verification will be considered as those without smartphones.
Title: Request for allocation of additional budget
The cabinet approved request for allocation of the budget from the central budget (FY2025) for emergency and contingency, at the budget framework of 342,930,000 Baht, to the Royal Thai Armed Forces Headquarters for expenses related to land management and improvement of integrated land boundary maps, scale 1: 4,000 (One Map)
Title: Report on aviation negotiation outcome between Thailand - Jordan and Thailand – India
The cabinet acknowledged and approved the following proposals of Ministry of Transport:
1) Report on aviation negotiation outcome between Thailand – Jordan
a. Acknowledged the Minutes of aviation negotiation between Thailand – Jordan, dated December 2023
b. Approved the draft protocol between the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand on revision of the agreement on air services between the Kingdom of Hashmeite Jordan and the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand, signed on 1 August 1975. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Transport may proceed without having to seek approval from the Cabinet again.
c. Authorized Minister of Foreign Affairs or a representative as signatory of the draft Protocol. Ministry of Foreign Affairs is assigned to issue the Full Powers to the signatory
d. Approved Thailand's draft diplomatic notes
e. Assigned Ministry of Foreign Affairs to exchange the diplomatic notes as a confirmation for the effectiveness of the aforementioned protocol between the Government of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand
2) Report on aviation negotiation outcome between Thailand – India
a. Acknowledged the MOU between Thailand – India
b. Approved Thailand's draft diplomatic notes
c. Assigned Ministry of Foreign Affairs to exchange the diplomatic notes as a confirmation for the effectiveness of the aforementioned MOU
Title: Request for an extension of implementation period of the cooperation project between Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) for the operation of the Bangkok - UNDP Regional Innovation Center (RIC) or the Thailand Policy Lab (TPLab)
The cabinet approved the following proposals of National Economic and Social Development Council:
1) Approved the draft Protocol to Amend Partnership Agreement between the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) for the
Operation of the Bangkok - UNDP Regional Innovation Center (RIC). Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, NESDC may proceed without having to seek approval of the cabinet again
2) Authorized NESDC Secretary General or a representative as signatory of the draft Protocol, and Ministry of Foreign Affairs is assigned to issue the Full Powers to the signatory
3) Approved the budget framework for the operation of RIC, at the total amount of USD2 million
Gist
The draft protocol prescribes extension of the RIC cooperation project period from February 28, 2025 to September 30, 2027 to ensure the maximum efficiency and effectiveness of the policy innovation development process for Thailand.
Title: Appointment of acting Minister of Culture
The cabinet approved in principle the ministers to perform duties as acting Minister of Culture in the following orders:
1) Minister Attached to the Prime Minister's Office Suchart Tonjaroen
2) Minister Attached to the Prime Minister's Office Jiraporn Sindhuprai

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/98425