รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Special cabinet meeting assigns Deputy Prime Minister Phumtham Wechayachai as acting PM

วันอาทิตย์ที่ 31 สิงหาคม 2568
Special cabinet meeting assigns Deputy Prime Minister Phumtham Wechayachai as acting PM
August 30, 2025, at 1000hrs, the cabinet, chaired by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Phumtham Wechayachai, acting Prime Minister, met at the Command Building I, Government House for a special meeting.
Minister Attached to the Prime Minister’s Office Chousak Sirinildisclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
1. The cabinet approved assignment of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Phumtham Wechayachai as acting Prime Minister, as proposed by the Cabinet Secretariat
Following the ruling of the Constitutional Court to terminate ministership of the Prime Minister as stipulated in Section 170 (4) of the Constitution of the Kingdom of Thailand, although Section 167 (1) of the Constitution prescribes that ministers vacate office en masse upon the termination of ministership of the Prime Minister, with the individual termination of the Prime Minister, she will not be able to perform her duty as acting Prime Minister, whereas other cabinet ministers will be able to perform duties until the incoming Cabinet assumes its duties in accordance with Section 168 (1) of the Constitution of the Kingdom of Thailand.
According to Section 10 (4) of the State Administration Act, B.E. 2534, during the period where the Council of Ministers must hold its office until the newly established Council of Ministers assumes its duties for the reason that the former Prime Minister being death, disqualified, sentenced by a judgment to a term of imprisonment; the House of the Representatives casts censure votes; the Constitutional Court decides that the Ministerial status of the Prime Minister is terminated; or the Senates casts votes to remove him or her from the office, the Council of Ministers shall assign one of the Deputy Prime Ministers to act for the Prime Minister.
2. The cabinet also appointed Mr. Prommin Lertsuridej as Prime Minister’s Secretary General (political official) from August 30, 2025 onward
3. The cabinet approved guidelines for state administration of the ministers as proposed by the Cabinet Secretariat as follows:
a. Although the ministers must vacate office en masse upon the termination of ministership of the Prime Minister, they shall remain in office to continue performing duties for utmost interest of the nation
b. Decisions on policies and matters with binding effect on the incoming cabinet should not be made
c. Necessary, urgent, or ongoing issues should be considered on a case-by-case basis, e.g., approval of new carryover debts, or establishment of new government agencies
d. As for the deliberation of draft bills, (1) those that have been approved in principle by the cabinet before August 29, 2025, and need to be resubmit to the cabinet after being reviewed by Office of Council of State shall be held for the consideration of the incoming cabinet after Office of Council of State has completed its review; (2) those that have been approved in principle by the cabinet before August 29, 2025 which Office of Council of State has done reviewing shall be forwarded to the House of Representatives; and (3) those that are being proposed to the cabinet meeting may be proceeded as appropriate if they involve an urgent need for protection of national interests
4. Political officials appointed by the Prime Minister, i.e.,Assistant Ministers, Thai Trade Representatives, and members of various committees, shall also vacate their positions. However, if there is a need for these individuals to continue performing duties, they must be re-appointed strictly in accordance with relevant laws and regulations
With regard to the Thailand – Cambodia situation, appointment orders made by the Prime Minister shall be expired. New members of the Ad Hoc Center for Thailand-Cambodia Border Situation will be proposed and appointed tomorrow.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/100304