รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM’s statement for “2025 International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking”

วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 26 มิถุนายน 2568
26/06/2568
พิมพ์
​PM’s statement for “2025 International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking”
​PM’s statement for “2025 International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking”
June 26, 2025, at 0930hrs, Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed about Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra’s statement for “2025 International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking”. Gist is as follows:
According to the Prime Minister, on 26 June every year, United Nations marks the International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking to raise awareness of the major problem that illicit drugs represent to mankind. Thailand, through both public, private, and people’s sectors, has committed to continue to prevent and eliminate illicit drugs, as well as global and regional threats to peace and security which have damaged people's lives and properties.
The Thai Government has designated prevention and suppression of illicit drugs as a national agenda that requires urgent action for tangible results. Legal measures and mechanisms, both at the central and local levels, have been implemented to intercept drug smuggling along the border and to vanquish drug trafficking networks.
The Government deploys the “Seal Stop Safe” strategy to fight against illicit drugs in a rigorous and inclusive manner by beefing up inspection and security measures at both permanent and temporary border crossing points, as well as natural channels, in 52 districts to intercept drugs smuggling and transnational crimes. With continued drugs suppression operations, prices of methamphetamine on the black market have also continued to increase, reflecting that illicit drugs are becoming harder to acquire.
The Government also gives high priority on drug user rehabilitation, focusing on treatment and social reintegration, while creating awareness among the public, students, and youths on the risks and harm of using illicit drugs. In light of this, cooperation from local administrations, village/sub-district/district heads, and provincial governors, as well as families, the smallest unit of society, is called for to monitor and ensure everyone’s safety.
In closing, the Prime Minister thanked all sectors, be it, public, private, and people sectors, for joining forces in keeping the Thai society and younger generations safe from illicit drugs. She also gave encouragement to those who have undergone treatment and are ready for social reintegration. The Prime Minister invited all the Thai people to take part in fighting and preventing drug abuse and illicit trafficking under the concept of “Stop Drugs, Start Power” to protect the Thai society and ensure better livelihood of the younger generations.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/97871