รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-H.M. the King grants a royal command to endorse the new cabinet

วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 3 กรกฎาคม 2568
03/07/2568
พิมพ์
H.M. the King grants a royal command to endorse the new cabinet
H.M. the King grants a royal command to endorse the new cabinet
Royal Command
Appointment of Ministers
---------------------------------------
Phra Bat Somdet Phra Poramenthra Ramathibodi Sisin Maha Vajiralongkorn Phra Vajira Klao Chao Yu Hua
His Majesty Phra Bat Somdet Phra Poramenthra Ramathibodi Sisin Maha Vajiralongkorn Phra Vajira Klao Chao Yu Hua has graciously given a Royal Command for the announcement to be made that:
Pursuant to the Royal Command dated 16 August B.E. 2567 appointing Ms. Paetongtarn Shinawatra as Prime Minister, and the Royal Commands dated 3 September B.E. 2567 appointing the council of ministers, the Prime Minister has humbly informed His Majesty that certain members of council of ministers resigned, and there is a need for the council of ministers to be adjusted for the interests of state administration;
On the authority of Sections 158 of the Constitution of the Kingdom of Thailand, His Majesty therefore graciously endorsed the appointment of ministers forthwith:
Mr. Phumtham Wechayachai  Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior
Mr. Suchart Tonjaroen  Minister Attached to the Prime Minister’s Office
Ms. Sudawan Wangsuphakijkosol Minister of Higher Education Science Research and Innovation
Mr. Artthakorn Sirilatthayakorn Minister of Agriculture and Cooperatives
Mr. Jatuporn Buruspat  Minister of Commerce
Mr. Chantawit Tantasith  Deputy Minister of Commerce
Mr. Dej-is Khaothong  Deputy Minister of Interior
Mr. Pongkawin Jungrungruangkit Minister of Labour
Ms. Paetongtarn Shinawatra Minister of Culture (additional)
Ms. Narumon Pinyosinwat Minister of Education
Ms. Rinthipond Varinvatchararoj Deputy Minister of Education
Mr. Tewan Liptapallop  Deputy Minister of Education
Mr. Anucha Sasomsub  Deputy Minister of Public Health
Mr. Chaichana Detdacho Deputy Minister of Public Health
Announced on 30 June B.E. 2568, being the 10th year of the present Reign.
Countersigned by
Ms. Paetongtarn Shinawatra
Prime Minister

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/98118