รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM gives moral support to border officials and personnel

วันศุกร์ที่ 27 มิถุนายน 2568
27/06/2568
พิมพ์
PM gives moral support to border officials and personnel
PM gives moral support to border officials and personnel
On June 26, 2025, at 1400hrs, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra visited the 3rd Infantry Battalion, 12th Infantry Regiment, King's Guard (Surasinghanart Fort) in Aranyaprathet, Sakaeo province, to follow up on the border situation and offer her moral support to the military personnel. Accompanying the Prime Minister were Deputy Minister of Defense Gen. Natthapon Nakpanich, Permanent Secretary of Ministry of Commerce Vuttikrai Leewiraphan, Permanent Secretary of Ministry of Interior Unsit Sampuntharat, Sakaeo governor, and Commander of the 1st Army Area. Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister gave her moral support to all the military personnel stationed along the border area, and expressed concern over the border problems, especially the issues of transnational crimes and call center gangs which have been affecting the people’s safety and wellbeing.
Her field visit was to listen directly to the problems and needs of the locals. The Prime Minister affirmed the Government’s commitment to provide help and support in all dimensions in a bid to secure better quality of life of border residents. She also thanked village/subdistrict/district chiefs, local administrative officials, military and police officers for working closely together and performing their duties with determination and patience to ensure safety and peace of the local people.
The Prime Minister boosted morale of border officials and personnel, and thanked them for their sacrifices for the country. She affirmed that the Government would not forget to ensure wellbeing of officials and personnel working in the border areas, and is ready to provide full support so that they can perform their duties with good morale and motivation. The Government also commits to taking good care of the people and to working closely with all relevant sectors for tangible outcomes.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/97930