รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Govt vows to eradicate transnational crimes along Thai-Cambodian borders

วันอังคารที่ 24 มิถุนายน 2568
Govt vows to eradicate transnational crimes along Thai-Cambodian borders
Govt vows to eradicate transnational crimes along Thai-Cambodian borders
June 23, 2025, at 1520hrs, at Bhakti Bodin Building, Government House, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra chaired a press briefing on anti-transnational crime operations. Joining the Prime Minister were Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense Phumtha Wechayachai, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Digital Economy and Society Prasert Chantararuangthong, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mars Sangiampongsa, Deputy Minister of Defense Gen. Nattapong Nakpanich, Deputy Minister of Interior Theerarat Samrejvanich, Chief of Defense Forces Gen. Songwit Noonpackdee, Chief of Staff of the Royal Thai Army Gen. Thongchai Rodyoi, Permanent Secretary to the Ministry of Interior Unsit Sampuntharat, Secretary General of National Security Council Chatchai Bangchuad, Inspector General of the Royal Thai Police Pol. Gen. Thatchai Pitanilabut, Permanent Secretary to Ministry of Commerce Wutthikrai Leewiraphan, Deputy Secretary-General, Acting Secretary-General of the National Broadcasting and Telecommunications Commission (NBTC) Trairat Viriyasirikul, and Secretary-General of the Anti-Money Laundering Office Thepsu Bowornchotdara.
The Prime Minister announced the Government’s decision to elevate execution and operation in addressing transnational crimes, and expressed Thailand’s readiness to work closely together with other nations, especially on suppressing cybercrimes which have affected people’s livelihood and wellbeing, and undermined Thailand’s credibility at an international level.
The data of UNODC alleged that Cambodia is one of the world’s largest hub for transnational crimes, with the damage worth over 600 billion Baht/year, and a threat to national security. In light of this, Thailand, through its security agencies, Ministries of Interior, Foreign Affairs, and Digital Economy and Society, commits to expedite rigorous suppression of border crimes, and will implement relevant measures as follows:
On security aspect, increased strictness will be applied for going in and out of border checkpoints with limited opening-closing hours at the Thai-Cambodian border in 7 provinces. Both vehicles and people are prohibited to enter and exit the country, except for clear necessities and purposes, i.e., studying, visiting hospitals, and buying goods for a living. Foreign tourists are also prohibited from exiting Thailand for gambling at the border areas. Authorities will also undertake strict measures on traveling by air to Siam Riep for gambling.
Ministry of Digital Economy and Society, through the Anti-Online Scam Operation Center (AOC), will beef up the measures to track down mule accounts and flow of funds related to transnational call center gangs, and suspend internet services and undersea internet gateways used by Cambodia's military and security agencies. The Government will also work closely with AMLO to impose sanctions on transnational criminals found to be laundering money, including seizing or freezing assets moved abroad.
Export of goods that are found to support activities of transnational crime groups must be suspended. The Government is also considering suspending the export of gasoline used in illegal activities to Cambodia. Ministry of Commerce has also implemented measures to help farmers and SMEs affected by the border situation, and called for cooperation from both the public and private sectors to purchase these products. Ministry of Foreign Affairs will liaise with other countries and international organizations to suppress cybercrime networks, with Thailand being the centre for joint regional operations.
The Prime Minister instructed all relevant sectors to set clear timelines and KPIs for implementing respective measures. It is expected that reports of cybercrimes and damages, as well as asset confiscation and prosecutions against criminal networks, will be concretely decreased within 3 months. She reiterated the Government’s priority on resolving the problem and eliminating cyber scams, and affirmed that the public will be properly informed and updated on the progress.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/97788