รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand submits revised proposal on reciprocal tariffs to U.S.

วันอังคารที่ 8 กรกฎาคม 2568
08/07/2568
พิมพ์
Thailand submits revised proposal on reciprocal tariffs to U.S.
Thailand submits revised proposal on reciprocal tariffs to U.S.
July 7, 2025, at 1730hrs, Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed about the clarification of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Pichai Chunhavajira on the negotiations with the United States on reciprocal tariffs, according to which, Thailand has officially submitted a revised proposal on the night of July 6. The revised proposal is aimed to increase bilateral trade value and reduce Thailand's trade surplus with the U.S. by 70% in 5 years. With this, trade balance is expected to be achieved in 7-8 years, sooner than the original plan that proposed to reduce the trade surplus within 10 years.
Based on the new proposal, which is more detailed than its predecessor, Thailand intends to import more agricultural and industrial products, and increase purchase of energy and aircrafts from the U.S. Products to be imported will be those that saw shortages in supply and cannot be domestically manufactured in a bid to ensure the least impact on Thai farmers and entrepreneurs. Thailand also proposes reduction of non-tariff barriers and improvement of related processes to increase flexibility in trading and to enhance competitiveness.
Thailand expressed its clear commitment to purchase energy from the U.S. Negotiation for a 20-year agreement to buy LNG from the Alaska LNG project is now underway. Several Thai chemical firms also commit to import more ethane, whereas THAI Airways has given signs to purchase more Boeings.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Government is committed to protecting the Thai economy from possible impacts from the U.S. reciprocal tariffs. The Team Thailand has steadily discussed with various sectors, both from Thailand and the U.S., to develop a discreet and inclusive proposal for mutual benefits. The Government would like to confirm that it will continue with professional negotiations to reach an agreement before the expiration of the U.S. tariff suspension period, while preparing measures to assist agricultural and business sectors affected by the U.S. reciprocal tariffs.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/98252