รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Govt Spokesperson reveals successful operation of Thai F-16 fighter jets in defending nation’s sovereignty

วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 24 กรกฎาคม 2568
24/07/2568
พิมพ์
Govt Spokesperson reveals successful operation of Thai F-16 fighter jets in defending nation’s sovereignty
Govt Spokesperson reveals successful operation of Thai F-16 fighter jets in defending nation’s sovereignty
July 24, 2025, at 1430hrs, Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub, as member of Ad Hoc Center for Thailand-Cambodia Border Situation, condemned Cambodia’s military operation of firing heavy artillery into the Thai military base and civilian areas, including a hospital, resulting in civilian casualties and fatalities, that the act was truly inhumane and war-driven. He also disclosed about the operations of the Royal Thai Air Forces that at approx. 1400hrs today six F-16 fighter jets were deployed in defense of the nation’s sovereignty and successfully returned to their base.
However, there have been news and images circulated on Khmer social media platforms allegedly claiming that the Cambodian military forces managed to shoot down a Thai F-16 fighter jet, which is completely untrue. According to the Government Spokesperson, the images are apparently AI-generated and the fake news is also fabricated to boast Cambodia’s military power and to boost the morale of Khmer soldiers.
The Government Spokesperson assured the public of the power and capability of the Royal Thai Armed Forces in defending the nation’s sovereignty. He also reported on the evacuation of Thai civilians, and updated on the damages and casualties as follows:
Buriram Province (Ban Kruat District): Approx 70% of the population has been evacuated.
Surin Province: Phanom Dong Rak District: Approx 90% evacuated; Kap Choeng District: Around 60% evacuated; Sangkha District: About 30% evacuated
Sisaket Province (Kantharalak District): About 50% evacuated.
Ubon Ratchathani Province: Nam Khun District: Approx 90% evacuated; Nam Yuen District: The Nam Yuen Hospital has fully evacuated all patients and staff — 100% evacuated.
1. Affected Areas
Ban Khilek, Ban Kruat Subdistrict, Ban Kruat District, Buriram Province: Hit by 5 shots of heavy artillery-- 1 cow killed
Ban Nong Raet, Bak Dai Subdistrict, Phanom Dong Rak District, Surin Province: Hit by 10 shots of heavy artillery
Ban Phue, Nong Ya Lat Subdistrict, Kantharalak District, Sisaket Province: Area around PTT gas station and Border Patrol Police Company 224 struck by BM21 grads
House of Mr. Boonluam Thongwiset, Moo 9, Dom Subdistrict: No injuries reported
2. Civilian Casualties
PTT Gas Station, Ban Phue: 2 dead, 5 injured-- All injured transferred to Kantharalak Hospital
Ban Chorak: 2 dead, 1 critically injured, 1 injured-- All transferred to Prasat Hospital
Moo 16, Ban Kruat Subdistrict: 1 injured-- Transferred to Prakhon Chai Hospital

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/98765