รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Government Spokesperson Calls Out Cambodia for Twisting the Truth: Thailand Does Not Mistreat Cambodian Workers 

วันพุธที่ 30 กรกฎาคม 2568
Government Spokesperson Calls Out Cambodia for Twisting the Truth: Thailand Does Not Mistreat Cambodian Workers
and Accuses the Cambodian Government of Using Workers for Political Game
On 30 July 2025, at 10.30 a.m., Mr. Jirayu Houngsub, Government Spokesperson and member of the Ad Hoc Centre for the Thailand-Cambodia Border Situation, stated that despite the ceasefire agreement signed in Putrajaya, Malaysia, Cambodia continues to violate the terms of the agreement. At the same time, it continues to play dirty politics against Thailand.
Most recently, the Ministry of Labour and Vocational Training of Cambodia released an open letter urging international buyers and consumers to boycott Thai products and services, falsely accusing Thailand of mistreating Cambodian workers.
“Cambodia won’t stop playing dirty politics, fueling a boycott against Thai products,” Jirayu said. “The Cambodian government is exploiting every possible means to spread lies. In reality, Thailand reaffirms its fair and humane treatment of Cambodian workers.”
Government Spokesperson stated that Thailand has continually improved conditions for Cambodian workers, citing last week’s Cabinet resolution that allows them to continue working in Thailand without having to leave the country to renew their border passes. Thai employers and Cambodian workers coexist with mutual respect and good relations.
He added that despite the Cambodian government’s attempts to stir up hate, Thai manufacturers have never responded with calls to boycott Cambodian-made products. “Thai people know the conflict is with the Cambodian government, not the Cambodian people,” Jirayu emphasized.
“We urge Cambodia: stop harming your own workers for the sake of political games. They are already suffering enough. The Cambodian Ministry of Labour should focus on support and reconciliation instead of inciting hatred. Many Cambodian workers in Thailand are being well cared for, while those who returned home with promises of employment are now struggling to survive,” Jirayu said.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/99070