รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Thailand dominates over 80 of top 100 most searched food and beverage experiences in ASEAN according to Traveloka

วันจันทร์ที่ 7 กรกฎาคม 2568
07/07/2568
พิมพ์
​Thailand dominates over 80 of top 100 most searched food and beverage experiences in ASEAN according to Traveloka
​Thailand dominates over 80 of top 100 most searched food and beverage experiences in ASEAN according to Traveloka
July 5, 2025, Deputy Government Spokesperson Sasikarn Watthanachan disclosed about the popularity of Thai food and gastronomy tourism at the global level. According to the report of “Traveloka” online platform, Thailand dominates over 80 of the top 100 most searched food and beverage experiences in the ASEAN region. The data cements the country’s image as world’s renowned gastronomy tourism destination, in line with the Government’s goal to push Thailand towards becoming a global food hub by 2026.
Traveloka reported that Bangkok tops the list as ASEAN’s culinary destination, with over 60% of the most popular culinary experiences on Traveloka being in the city. In addition, major tourist cities, such as, Pattaya, Chiang Mai, Khon Kaen, Phuket, and Hua Hin, are also gaining a lot of attention, reflecting the diversity of Thailand’s culinary destinations throughout the country.
With the continuous growth of world’s gastronomy tourism, Thailand has become a major destination that attracts tourists to experience tastes, delicacies, and food culture. The Government also strives to promote food industry to grow by an average of 5% per year, with the estimate income generation of over 700 billion Baht this year.
Tourism Authority of Thailand (TAT) has launched the campaign “Year of Celebration” during the green season between June and September 2025, to focus on promoting 55 secondary cities nationwide through organization of various activities, i.e., “Gastro Nomad #ตามหารส” for tourists who are passionate about food. More than 10 million tourists are expected during the period, generating income of no less than 500 million Baht.
According to the Deputy Government Spokesperson, the government commits to advance national economy through the country’s strengths in food and tourism. All sectors are encouraged to join hands in enhancing national reputation and generating incomes for the country through strong and sustainable food tourism economy so that all the Thais can prosper.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/98241