รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Tourists warned not to use services of illegal tour operators

วันศุกร์ที่ 11 กรกฎาคม 2568
11/07/2568
พิมพ์
Tourists warned not to use services of illegal tour operators
Tourists warned not to use services of illegal tour operators
July 11, 2025, at 0910hrs, Deputy Government Spokesperson Sasikarn Watthanachan disclosed about the Department of Tourism’s statistics on the registration of tour leader and operation licenses during the first half of 2025 (January – June 2025), which is amounted to 3,436 registrants, an increase of 14.04% from the same period last year. The statistics is a positive sign for Thai tourism revival. Most of the registered operators are based in both primary and secondary cities across the country.
However, despite a good news for tourism businesses, there have been some individuals or groups of individuals who are conducting tourism businesses without a proper license through commercially organizing tourism activities for the public or strangers. These people are found to post about their tour packages, accommodation or related services via social media with the intention of seeking profits, which is considered illegal, according to Section 15 of the Tourism Business and Tourist Guide Act, B.E. 2551 (2008), and are subject to imprisonment or a maximum fine of 500,000 baht or both.
Those who would like to conduct tourism businesses for commercial purposes are, therefore, required to apply for proper tourism business operating license with chief registrar for tourism business and tourist guide or a registrar for tourism business and tourist guide at the branch offices across the country. The public is also urged to seek tourism services with licensed tour operators in order to ensure their safety and to be legally covered by the insurance program for international visitors.
The Deputy Government Spokesperson added that the Government encourages all sectors to join forces in promoting safe, transparent, and fair tourism in a bid to advance Thai tourism industry and benefit national economy in a sustainable manner. Those who encounter illegal tour operation or suspicious tourism activities may notify the Department of Tourism at phone: 0-2401-1111; or e-mail: [email protected].

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/98342