รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-“Prime Minister Meets Investors: Confidence in Thailand’s Future - Prime Minister’s Dialogue with Global Investors”

วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 7 สิงหาคม 2568
07/08/2568
พิมพ์
“Prime Minister Meets Investors: Confidence in Thailand’s Future - Prime Minister’s Dialogue with Global Investors”
“Prime Minister Meets Investors: Confidence in Thailand’s Future - Prime Minister’s Dialogue with Global Investors”
August 6, 2025, at 1400hrs, Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed about the Government’s meeting with representatives of world’s leading firms to discuss promotion of foreign direct investments at the event “Prime Minister Meets Investors: Confidence in Thailand’s Future - Prime Minister’s Dialogue with Global Investors”.
Starting at 1000hrs, the Thai delegation, led by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Phumtham Wechayachai, as acting Prime Minister, met with executives of 30 major investors in Thailand, e.g., Infineon, Sony, Changan, Google, TikTok, and Nestle, etc., to boost their confidence on the country’s potential and competitiveness, as well as on the Government’s commitment to continue supporting and facilitating their investment and business operation in Thailand.
The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior affirmed the following:
1. Thailand’s preparedness against imposition of U.S. tariffs by improving its internal mechanisms and regulations in a bid to increase national competitiveness
2. Thailand’s commitment to promote private sector’s access to global markets through its 17 trade agreements with 24 countries. The country is also negotiating new agreements with several others, including the EU, South Korea, and Canada with an aim to create advantages of Thai product export to 50 countries worldwide
3. Development of clean and renewable energy to support business operation sustainability and to enable direct deals between electricity producers and consumers
4. The development of human resources to accommodate strategic industries through collaborations with leading private sector firms. For instance, the implementation of Sandbox project, in collaborations with 15 universities and 8 private companies, to produce over 80,000 skilled personnel in semiconductors and advanced electronics individuals within 5 years
After the meeting, a Memorandum of Understanding on Vocational Education Upskill was signed between Office of the Vocational Education Commission, Office of the Board of Investment (BOI), and 6 PCB manufacturing companies, namely, Wus Printed Circuit (Thailand), Gold Circuit, Unimicron Thailand, Thai Xing, Starteam Global, and KCE Electronics. The MoU is aimed at developing vocational-level workforces to support PCB manufacturing industry.
This collaboration is a significant step in elevating Thai vocational education to keep up with the current industrial world. It is also in line with the Government's policy to promote vocational education for employment through practical learnings, i.e., dual vocational education curriculum; upskilling, reskilling, and new skill training; and new curriculum co-designed with business sector to ensure that student qualifications meet the market demands. This project is also a proactive plan designed to accommodate the country's S-Curve industries, particularly new industries like manufacturing of printed circuit board (PCB), which Thailand aims to become one of the top 5 producers in the world.
All of the above reflect the Government’s commitment to attract large-scale foreign investment. Favorable investment environment and factors conducive to business operations have been created in parallel with the development of human resources, to enhance national competitiveness in a systematic manner.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/99463