รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Govt warns 33 provinces to be on alert for flash flood and landslide during July 6-12

วันอังคารที่ 8 กรกฎาคม 2568
08/07/2568
พิมพ์
Govt warns 33 provinces to be on alert for flash flood and landslide during July 6-12
Govt warns 33 provinces to be on alert for flash flood and landslide during July 6-12
July 7, 2025, at 0900hrs, Deputy Government Spokesperson Sasikarn Watthanachan disclosed that the Department of Disaster Prevention and Mitigation has notified 33 provinces in the North, Northeast, Central, and the South to be on alert for flash flood and overflows, inundation, and landslide during July 6-12, 2025. Relevant agencies in the risk-prone areas are ordered to be prepared at all times.
The Department of Disaster Prevention and Mitigation has warned provincial administrations in risk areas to closely monitor the situation, especially areas with accumulated rainfall exceeding 90 millimeters within 24 hours and areas that have repeatedly flooded. They are urged to urgently inspect and repair flood barriers, remove water obstacles, and appropriately manage water from upstream to downstream.
Natural tourist attractions at risk, such as, waterfalls and caves, must also be closely monitored. If there is a risk, the area must be closed off immediately. Medium and small reservoirs in many provinces, especially in Lampang, Nan, Sakon Nakhon, Kalasin, Trat, Surat Thani and Krabi, with over 80% of stored water or excessive level of water must be drained to accommodate ongoing heavy rainfall. Provinces with the areas that need to be monitored for swift rise of water levels in the Mekong River, as a result of accumulated rainfall in the upper part of the Lao People's Democratic Republic, are Chiang Rai, Loei, Nong Khai, Bueng Kan, Nakhon Phanom, Mukdahan, Amnat Charoen, and Ubon Ratchathani.
The Government also seeks cooperation from the residents in risk areas to closely follow up on official notifications, either via the “THAI DISASTER ALERT” application and online channels of the Department of Disaster Prevention and Mitigation, including Facebook: Department of Disaster Prevention and Mitigation DDPM, X: @DDPMNews, Line ID: @1784DDPM, and YouTube: DDPMNews. They may also notify or seek help 24/7 from the authorities via Hotline 1784.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/98256