รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM chairs meeting to follow up on and address impact of Thai-Cambodian border closure on locals

วันศุกร์ที่ 27 มิถุนายน 2568
27/06/2568
พิมพ์
PM chairs meeting to follow up on and address impact of Thai-Cambodian border closure on locals
PM chairs meeting to follow up on and address impact of Thai-Cambodian border closure on locals
June 26, 2025, at 1015hrs, at Aranyaprathet School, Aranyaprathet district, Sakaeo province, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra chaired a meeting to follow up on the Thai Cambodian border closure and its impact. Participating in the meeting were Deputy Minister of Defense Gen. Natthapon Nakpanich, Permanent Secretary of Ministry of Commerce Vuttikrai Leewiraphan, Permanent Secretary of Ministry of Interior Unsit Sampuntharat, Sakaeo governor, Commander of the 1st Army Area, and executives of local government agencies. Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister listened to a briefing on the impact of Thai Cambodian border closure at crossing points under the responsibility of Aranyaprathet Customs. Since the border closure has taken into effect on June 23, import and export of goods have been suspended, resulting in a loss of trade value of approx. 330 million Baht. The Prime Minister thanked all concerned sectors for their dedication in performing duties, and for relentlessly mitigating plights of the locals. They are also instructed to consistently communicate with them to avoid miscommunication and confusion.
The Commander of the 1st Army Area reported on a temporary relaxation of border restrictions at the Khlong Luek checkpoint to alleviate the impact of border closure. Only Cambodians who hold a Border Pass issued by Banteay Meanchey Province can cross the border to buy consumer goods, but they are not allowed to enter the Thai border by other vehicles except bicycles, and are required to stay in the country for no more than a day. Opening times for the entry of the Cambodians are 0800 - 0930 hrs. (300 people); 1030 - 1200 hrs. (300 people); and 1300 - 1500 hrs. (400 people).
According to the Prime Minister, the above implementation measures are part of the effort to suppress the persistent problem of transnational crime. The Government is well aware of the impact of border restrictions on local people and businesses, and the Prime Minister’s visit was to closely monitor the situation and discuss ways to promptly help those affected.
Ministry of Interior has been instructed to provide assistance through provincial governors to make sure that local people are well taken care of. Review of implemented measures and the request-for-assistance process must also be conducted to ensure promptness, transparency, and fairness. Ministry of Commerce was also assigned to expedite assistance in clearing product stocks and mitigating plights of affected business operators. The Prime Minister warned private firms, of which the operations associate with transnational crime and affect national security, that the Government will consider taking appropriate action on them in a bid to maintain national security in all dimensions.
After the meeting, the Prime Minister visited classes of the Aranyaprathet School, and wished all students success in their exams, before traveling to Khlong Luek Border Checkpoint to follow up on the situation and give moral support to officers on duty and the locals.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/97907