รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล- Diplomatic corps briefed on Thailand’s effort on demining

วันจันทร์ที่ 18 สิงหาคม 2568
18/08/2568
พิมพ์
Diplomatic corps briefed on Thailand’s effort on demining
Diplomatic corps briefed on Thailand’s effort on demining
August 16, 2025, at 1330hrs, Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed that today Ministry of Foreign Affairs, led by Foreign Minister Maris Sangiampongsa, Assistant Minister to Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ras Chaleechan, together with Assistant Minister to Ministry of Interior Visan TechaTeerawat, and representatives of the Royal Thai Army, led a group of 33 diplomatic corps from states parties to the Ottawa Convention and ASEAN member states, two representatives of international organizations and one civil society organization for humanitarian demining, along with the Thai and foreign media, to visit Sisaket province.
The purpose of this field visit was to observe and inspect the areas affected by the Thailand – Cambodia situation and by anti-personnel landmines which were recently planted by the Cambodian soldiers. Thailand wants the global community to realize through undisputed and verifiable evidence, that Cambodia has deliberately violated the Ottawa Convention, which the international community came together to adopt in 1997 to ban the use of anti-personnel landmines. This constitutes a serious violation of international law, and a breach of Thailand's sovereignty and territorial integrity.
The photographs and verifiable evidence presented by the Army clearly conclude that these are newly planted anti-personnel landmines, which have caused severe injuries to Thai soldiers, resulting in five cases of permanent disability. These are not old landmines left uncleared, as claimed by Cambodia. Thailand, for its part, has destroyed all landmines in its stockpile.
The Thai Foreign Minister called on Cambodia to demonstrate sincerity and to cooperate in demining operations, as Thailand has proposed at the GBC meeting. From this day forward, he urged the international community, particularly States Parties to the Ottawa Convention, to press Cambodia to cooperate with the Thailand Mine Action Center (TMAC) in conducting joint Thai-Cambodian demining operations, covering both old and newly planted mines. The Foreign Minister also emphasized that anti-personnel landmines are indiscriminate weapons that harm both combatants and innocent civilians. They are an inhumane form of violence.
While there is a ceasefire in place under the agreement reached at the Extraordinary GBC Meeting, there remains the continued dissemination of distorted information. The Thai Government has therefore invited members of the diplomatic corps and both Thai and foreign media to this site visit to serve as first-hand witnesses to the facts, reaffirming Thailand’s commitment to transparency and verifiability in the information and evidence presented.
During his attendance at the 10th Mekong-Lancang Cooperation (MLC) Foreign Ministers' Meeting in Anning, China, the Foreign Minister and the Cambodian Foreign Minister Prak Sokhonn were invited by Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi for a trilateral meeting, where he mentioned the impact of anti-personnel landmines on Thailand. The Foreign Minister expressed appreciation to Minister Wang Yi for facilitating the trilateral meeting, and for China’s readiness to assist Thailand and Cambodia in the demining operation.
However, the Foreign Minister clarified to China and all the other countries he spoke with that since Cambodia’s commitment on demining does not seem to be genuine, and regardless of
Cambodia’s claim that these land mines are old ones, Thailand would not wait and would proceed with its demining operation because the painful reality is that there are victims, some of whom have suffered for over 30 years.
The Foreign Minister took the opportunity to thank Ministry of Defense and the Royal Thai Armed Forces for collaborating today’s field visit of the diplomatic corps. The diplomatic corps also met with 5 residents of Pham Sron village who have been crippled and mentally suffered by anti-personnel land mines for over 30 years

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/99804