รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand doubts Cambodia’s commitment on ceasefire talks  

วันอาทิตย์ที่ 27 กรกฎาคม 2568
27/07/2568
พิมพ์
Thailand doubts Cambodia’s commitment on ceasefire talks
Thailand doubts Cambodia’s commitment on ceasefire talks
July 27, 2025, at 1045hrs, Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub, as member of Ad Hoc Center for Thailand-Cambodia Border Situation, denounced the recent social media post of Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Manet, which stated that Cambodia fully supported unconditional ceasefire, and that he was pleased with Thailand’s agreement, and hoped the latter would not backtrack on its commitment.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Cambodian Prime Minister continues to show his lack of sincerity. If one reads between the line, his statement underlines motives to disparage Thailand. The Thai Government has emphasized repeatedly that any ceasefire negotiation would begin after Cambodia immediately stops attacking Thai civilians and residential areas. However, Cambodia’s military operations continue despite the Cambodian Prime Minister’s affirmation to support ceasefire, which proves that the Cambodian Government is buying time to simply garner attention of the global community.
Earlier at 0601hrs today, the Cambodian military continued to fire artillery across the border into Thai civilian areas, as it has for 3 days in a row now, resulting in the injury of local residents in Ban Ta So Nueng, Ban Pluang Subdistrict, Prasat District, Surin Province. Several homes have also caught fire.
The Thai Government would like to reaffirm that the Cambodian military initiated the attacks. They have evidently continued to engage in war crimes and inhuman acts through the attacks of civilians and residential areas despite their statement given to the international community to support ceasefire.
The Thai Government is full of concern over such acts of hypocrisy as Thailand consistently affirms on its readiness for ceasefire talks.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/98920