รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Outcomes of Thailand – Cambodia GBC meeting

วันศุกร์ที่ 8 สิงหาคม 2568
08/08/2568
พิมพ์
Outcomes of Thailand – Cambodia GBC meeting
Outcomes of Thailand – Cambodia GBC meeting
August 7, 2025, at 1530hrs, Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub, as member of Ad Hoc Center for Thailand-Cambodia Border Situation, disclosed about the outcome of the Extraordinary General Border Committee (GBC) Meeting between Thailand and Cambodia with Deputy Defense Minister Gen Nattaphon Narkphanit, acting Minister of Defense, as head of the Thai delegation.
The Deputy Defense Minister thanked Malaysian Government and Ministry of Defense, as ASEAN chair, for hosting the meeting, which is a follow-on from the previous meeting held in Putrajaya, Malaysia on July 28, 2025. At the Putrajaya meeting, both parties agreed upon the ceasefire. However, Cambodia was found to be violating the agreement, to which Thailand, despite it having strictly adhered to the agreement, had to respond in the most restraint manner for self-defense. Not only that, Cambodia’s drone operation for espionage is a provocative act that could lead to further misunderstanding, and the spread of unconstructive and distorted information does not help create an atmosphere conducive to negotiation and restoring trust.
Thailand’s intention for the meeting today was to have a sincere and positive discussion for the continuation of the ceasefire in a bid to bring lasting peace to the border area for mutual benefits. At the meeting, Cambodian policy makers have demonstrated their sincerity to the ceasefire agreement. Earlier ceasefire violations might have been arbitrary action of the operational units in the area.
The following are the key outcomes of today’s meeting:
1. Both sides agreed to strictly adhere to the ceasefire, covering all types of weapons, and to maintain troops at their current locations from the date of the ceasefire without any further reinforcement.
2. An interim observer team, consisting of the ASEAN Defence Attachés to Thailand and Cambodia, led by the Malaysian Defence Attaché, will be formed to observe the respective border areas regularly without border crossings, in close coordination with the RBCs and the GBCs in each country to ensure that the ceasefire is not violated by either side.
3. Both sides will refrain from provocative actions, including military actions and disinformation or false news, to foster an atmosphere conducive to dialogue and peaceful resolution.
4. Both sides will strictly adhere to international humanitarian law. During the immediate period, the bodies of the deceased will be collected and repatriated to their countries in a dignified manner. Repatriation of prisoners of war, in accordance with international law, will occur immediately after the complete cessation of active hostilities, in accordance with the Third Geneva Convention. In the meantime, Thailand has provided full care to these individuals in accordance with international humanitarian law.
5. Both sides will maintain communication channels and utilize existing bilateral mechanisms to resolve any potential issues that arise to prevent further escalation. A meeting of the RBC will be held within two weeks to coordinate implementation of the agreement. A further meeting of the GBC will be held in a month to also follow up on the progress of this meeting.
There are two important related issues, however, which Cambodia has yet to respond to but which will be discussed at the next GBC meeting, namely:
1. Cooperation on demining, a key factor that has led to the use of force between the two countries. Thailand is ready to cooperate with Cambodia in demining areas where clashes have occurred and other areas along the border to ensure the safety of both sides.
2. Cooperation in suppressing transnational organized crime, particularly online scams, which has a widespread impact on the Thai people and other countries in the region.
According to the Deputy Defense Minister, today’s tangible outcomes require cooperation and sincerity. The Thai side will continue to uphold honest and sincere cooperation and dialogue on the basis of good neighborliness, and he hoped that Cambodia would do the same. Ultimately, Thailand and Cambodia are neighbors sharing a common border and cannot be separated from each other. Both countries are members of the same ASEAN family. If Thailand and Cambodia can resolve these issues quickly, it will bring peace to the border areas and allow the people of both countries to return to normal, peaceful life.
Both Thailand and Cambodia finally resolved to the following 13 agreements:
1. Both sides agreed to a ceasefire involving all types of weapons, including attacks on civilians, civilian objects and military objectives of either side, in all cases and all areas. Both sides must avoid unprovoked firing towards the other side’s positions or troops. This agreement must not be violated under any circumstances.
2. Both sides agreed to maintain their current troop deployments without further movement as it is at the time ceasefire reached at 24:00 hours (local time) on 28 July 2025. There shall be no troop movements including patrol towards the other side’s position.
3. Both sides agreed not to increase forces along the entire Cambodia-Thailand border. Any reinforcement would heighten tensions and negatively affect long- term efforts to resolve the situation.
4. Both sides agreed not to undertake provocative actions that may escalate tensions. This includes military activities to enter the other side's air space and territory or positions as of ceasefire from 24:00 hours (local time) on 28 July 2025. Both sides agreed to refrain from constructing or enhancing any military infrastructure or fortifications beyond their own side.
5. Both sides agreed not to use any kind of forces against civilians and civilian objects in all circumstances. Such actions would not only endanger communities in the border areas but also violate international law and tarnish the global image of the non-compliant side.
6. Both sides agreed to comply with international humanitarian law in the treatment of captured soldiers, including their living conditions, shelter, food and medical care in case of injury. If one side wishes to bring in its own wounded soldiers or civilians who are not under the control of the other side for medical treatment, the receiving side may determine its response based on the capacity of its medical facilities, including available equipment, personnel, or medical ethics, on a case-by-case basis. Captured soldiers shall be immediately released and repatriated after the cessation of active hostilities in accordance with Article 118 of the Third Geneva Convention of 1949 and Rule 128(A) of the Customary International Humanitarian Law. Both sides agreed to exchange information and facilitate the dignified and timely return of deceased individuals at an agreed location in full respect of humanitarian principles and jurisdiction without crossing the border and ensure that appropriate measures are taken to identify and manage the dead under sanitary and respectful condition thereby preventing the deceased from disappearing in death.
7. In the event of an armed conflict, whether intentional or unintentional, both sides must promptly consult at the local level through existing bilateral mechanisms to prevent the situation from escalating along the entire border. Prolonged conflicts would endanger the safety of civilians and soldiers on both sides and heighten tensions, thereby complicating efforts toward a joint resolution.
8. Both sides agreed to refrain from disseminating false information or fake news in order to de-escalate tensions, mitigate negative public sentiment and foster an environment conducive to peaceful dialogue.
9. Both sides remain committed to implementing the common understanding reached at the Special Meeting on 28 July 2025, including the ceasefire and formation of ASEAN observer team led by Malaysia to verify and ensure its implementation.
10. Both sides agreed to assign the respective RBCs to carry out the implementation of the ceasefire coordinated and observed by ASEAN observer team led by Malaysia. The RBCs will meet regularly and submit their reports to the GBC through their respective national chains of command.
11. Both sides agreed that, pending the ASEAN observer team led by Malaysia as agreed upon by both sides in Putrajaya on 28 July 2025, the Interim Observer Team (IOT) comprising Defence Attaches of ASEAN Member States accredited to Cambodia or Thailand and led by the Malaysian Defence Attaché will be established separately and independently in each country, Cambodia and Thailand, to observe, on each side, the implementation of the ceasefire on a regular basis. The composition of each country’s IOT is independently invited by the host country in consultation with Malaysia. The IOT will operate without crossing the border and will work in close coordination and consultation with the RBCs and GBC of each country.
12. Both sides agreed to maintain regular communications at all levels, particularly:
a. Maintain regular communications between all army areas and military regions and units along the border of both sides and strive to resolve all issues peacefully and avoid clashes.
b. Convene the Regional Border Committee (RBC) Meeting within two weeks after this Extraordinary GBC Meeting, with the host to be determined in accordance with the regular hosting rotation.
c. Maintain regular and direct lines of communication between Ministers and Chiefs of Defense Forces level.
13. Both sides agreed to schedule the next GBC Meeting within one month after 7 August 2025 (at a venue to be discussed). Otherwise, an Extraordinary GBC Meeting should be called immediately with the same format as this Extraordinary GBC Meeting to discuss the ceasefire.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/99498