รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​UNHCR commends Govt for allowing Myanmar refugees to work legally in Thailand

วันพุธที่ 27 สิงหาคม 2568
27/08/2568
พิมพ์
​UNHCR commends Govt for allowing Myanmar refugees to work legally in Thailand
​UNHCR commends Govt for allowing Myanmar refugees to work legally in Thailand
August 27, 2025, Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed that UNHCR commended the Thai Government’s adoption of a resolution that will grant long-staying refugees from Myanmar the right to work in Thailand, following the cabinet’s resolution to approve Ministry of Labor’s proposal regarding employment of forcibly displaced foreign nationals hosted in temporary shelters along the Thai-Myanmar border. This will allow the refugees to be legally employed in Thailand, significantly contributing to the development of Thai economy.
According to the UNHCR’s statement, by unlocking the potential of these individuals, Thailand is not only upholding humanitarian principles but also making a strategic investment in its own future. Refugees will now be able to support themselves and their families, stimulate local economies through increased consumption, and promote job creation, contributing to national GDP growth and economic resilience.
Building on Thailand’s 50-year legacy and leadership in hosting refugees, this new policy, if fully implemented, will set a new regional benchmark for a sustainable, rights-based refugee solution that could serve as a model for other countries facing similar challenges.
The Government Spokesperson added that the Thai Government has constantly been providing humanitarian assistance to forcibly displaced people who fled the conflicts in Myanmar. However, financial contributions from international and non-governmental organizations have dwindled, resulting in the increasing burden of the Thai Government in taking care of these refugees. In light of this, the cabinet has made approval to grant special permission for this group of refugees to stay and work in the country to support themselves and their families. This is in order to alleviate the Government's financial burden, support the nation's economic advancement, promote human rights, and address labor shortage.
As of August 15, 2025, there are a total of 9 temporary shelters for Myanmar displaced people, located in Mae Hong Son, Tak, Kanchanaburi, and Ratchaburi provinces. These shelters house a total of 77,718 refugees, of whom 42,601 are of working age.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/100188