รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Surin declared as war disaster zone

วันอังคารที่ 29 กรกฎาคม 2568
29/07/2568
พิมพ์
Surin declared as war disaster zone
Surin declared as war disaster zone
July 28, 2025, at 1020hrs, Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub, as member of Ad Hoc Center for Thailand-Cambodia Border Situation, disclosed that the Government has been informed that Governor of Surin province Chamnan Chuenta has signed an announcement declaring Surin as war disaster zone, the status equivalent to flood and earthquake disaster, as Thailand-Cambodia situation has continued to escalate, especially in the border districts of Buachet, Sangkha, Kap Choeng, and Phanom Dong Rak.
The Thai-Cambodian situation has been announced as “disaster” according to the Disaster Prevention and Mitigation Act, B.E. 2550, and Ministry of Finance Regulation on Advanced Funds for Emergency Disaster Relief B.E. 2562 in a bid for local administrations to be able to utilize emergency fund to mitigate people’s plights in a timely manner and as necessary.
Residents in affected areas are urged to heed warnings from the provincial government and follow the established safety guidelines, i.e., avoiding large gatherings, and keeping distance of the areas within a 120-km radius of the Thai-Cambodian border. Public areas advised to avoid visiting during the situation include military bases, hospitals, schools, department stores, convenience stores, and densely populated communities. If there is a need to visit high-risk areas, especially for those that live in the border districts, it is strongly suggested that they keep it as short as possible.
Residents of the high-risk areas are strongly advised to keep their mobile phones on at all times, and ensure that they are fully charged, to standby for any audible alert and warning message sent via the Cell Broadcast system. The media working in the fields is also called on to prioritize their safety. Other than refraining from sharing sensitive information, the public is encouraged to immediately report ill-intentioned posts or comments spreading online.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/98972