รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Cabinet approves extension of Prachinburi’s Huay Somong Dam construction period

วันพุธที่ 30 กรกฎาคม 2568
30/07/2568
พิมพ์
Cabinet approves extension of Prachinburi’s Huay Somong Dam construction period
Cabinet approves extension of Prachinburi’s Huay Somong Dam construction period
July 29, 2025, Deputy Government Sasikarn Watthanachan disclosed that the cabinet approved an extension of the construction period of Huay Somong Dam Under the Royal Initiative from 15 years (FY2010 – 2024) to 18 years (2010 – 2027) under the earlier approved budget ceiling of 9,078.00 million Baht. This is as proposed by Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (the Royal Irrigation Department).
According to the Deputy Government Spokesperson, construction delay of Huay Somong Dam Under the Royal Initiative is due to the delay in land acquisition as owners of some properties disapproved of asset compensation rates the Government has offered, while others do not permit access to their lands, and some lands are encumbered by legal issues. Moreover, a contractor failed to deploy machinery, tools, and personnel according to the planned schedule, hence, could not complete the work as scheduled. Consequently, the contract must be terminated in accordance with its terms, and a new contractor must be hired to take over the work. As a result, there is a need for an extension of the construction period of Huay Somong Dam Under the Royal Initiative as above.
The revised operation timeframe will be as follows:
Months 1-6: Expedite the handover of the construction site to the contractors to proceed with the work.
Months 7-12: Accelerate ongoing construction in other parts to ensure completion according to the plan. Simultaneously, initiate the bidding process for the contract that has been earlier terminated.
Months 13 onwards: Continuously monitor and push for the completion of the irrigation and drainage system as per scheduled.
The cabinet emphasized that this approval of extension will be the last, and urged Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives to complete the construction of Huay Somong Dam within the newly approved timeframe.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/99098