รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Cabinet members to visit and assist people in provinces affected by Thailand-Cambodia ongoing situation

วันศุกร์ที่ 25 กรกฎาคม 2568
Cabinet members to visit and assist people in provinces affected by Thailand-Cambodia ongoing situation
Cabinet members to visit and assist people in provinces affected by Thailand-Cambodia ongoing situation
July 25, 2025, Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed that Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Phumtham Wechayachai, as acting Prime Minister, ordered relevant agencies to expedite assistance and remedies to the families of affected victims from Thailand-Cambodia ongoing situation. Four ministers will represent the Government to make field trips to affected provinces to ensure integrated actions between central and local agencies in taking care of people’s wellbeing.
Minister Attached to the Prime Minister’s Office Jiraporn Sindhuprai will represent the Government to visit Surin Province.
Minister of Tourism and Sports Sorawong Thienthong will represent the Government to visit Buriram Province.
Minister of Justice Pol. Col. Tawee Sodsong will represent the Government to visit Sisaket Province.
Deputy Minister of Interior Theerarat Samrejvanich will represent the Government to visit Ubon Ratchathani Province.
The 4 ministers will visit respective provinces to meet with the local people, voice their concerns, and closely monitor government operations in those areas. They will also expedite assistance to the residents and affected individuals in all aspects including implementation of long-term recovery efforts.
With regard to the evacuation of Thai nationals in Cambodia who wish to return home, Minister of Foreign Affairs Maris Sangiampongsa had a meeting via the videoconference with Thai relevant agencies, including representatives of 7 Thai commercial airlines, namely, Thai Airways International, Thai AirAsia, Thai AirAsia X, Bangkok Airways, Thai VietJet Air, Nok Air, and Thai Lion Air. All the airlines agreed to arrange special flights, if necessary, to safely evacuate Thai nationals back home. This is the highest priority the Thai Government has placed, which is to ensure wellbeing and safety of the Thai people.
Thai nationals in Cambodia are advised to closely follow official updates. In case of emergency or need for assistance, please contact the Royal Thai Embassy in Phnom Penh, emergency phone number: (+855) 975 749 682, Royal Thai Consulate-General in Siem Reap, phone number: (+855) 86 608 999, Call Center Department of Consular Affairs, phone number: (+66) 2 572 8442 at all times.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/98841