รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Govt Spokesperson shows images of damaged medical facilities attacked by Cambodian military forces and condemned this act of aggression that violates humanitarian principles 

วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 31 กรกฎาคม 2568
30/07/2568
พิมพ์
Govt Spokesperson shows images of damaged medical facilities attacked by Cambodian military forces and condemned this act of aggression that violates humanitarian principles
Govt Spokesperson shows images of damaged medical facilities attacked by Cambodian military forces and condemned this act of aggression that violates humanitarian principles
On 30 July 2025 at 16.30 hrs., Mr. Jirayu Huangsab, Government Spokesperson, as member of the Ad Hoc Center for Thailand-Cambodia Border Situation, condemned in the strongest terms the Cambodian Government and its military for targeting and attacking Thai hospitals and medical facilities in several areas — a violation of humanitarian principles and international law.
The Government Spokesperson also revealed images of damaged hospitals, namely the Phanom Dong Rak (Chalerm Prakiat 80th Anniversary) Hospital, the Kham Proy Subdistrict Health Promoting Hospital, the Khok Subdistrict Health Promoting Hospital, and the Sam Maeng Subdistrict Health Promoting Hospital.
The Government Spokesperson asked that the international community not look away from and to condemn such acts of aggression. He reiterated Thailand's strict adherence to  humanitarian principles, focusing its operation only against military targets while doing its utmost to prevent civilian casualties.
According to the latest report of the Ministry of Public Health as of 10.00 hrs. today, Cambodia’s attacks have costed 15 civilian lives in Ubon Ratchathani and Sisaket provinces, 12 persons gravely injured, and 11 persons hospitalized, as well as 13 persons already discharged.
The list of affected hospitals and medical facilities are as follows:
• 11 hospitals which are completely closed: Nam Khun Hospital, Nam Yuen Hospital, Na Chaluai Hospital, Kantharalak Hospital, Phu Sing Hospital, Kap Choeng Hospital, Phanom Dong Rak Hospital, Prasat Hospital, Ban Kruat Hospital, Chalermprakiat Hospital, and Lahan Sai Hospital.
• 9 hospitals which are partially closed, but their emergency rooms remain open.
• 144 Subdistrict Health Promotion Hospitals which have been affected, with 140 being closed, and 4 partially opened.
According to the initial inspection, four medical facilities were directly attacked. Damage inspection and assessment are now underway. It is anticipated that structural restoration will take a long time.
On the other hand, affected residents have also been taken care of. The Ministry of Public Health has provided assistance to the public through its 1,168 special operational units (MERT, ALS, MCATT, SEhRT), among which over 494 units have now been in the fields. Additionally, mental health professionals have attended to over 21,430 people at the temporary shelters.
The Thai Government is committed to exercising its full authority and capacity to assist all affected persons, and would like to call on all sides, including the media and international organizations, to demand accountability from the Cambodian Government.
The Government Spokesperson also reiterated Thailand’s unwavering commitment to peaceful approaches within the framework of international law. Relevant agencies are now gathering evidence, as irrefutable proof against Cambodia’s inhumane acts, to show to the world.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/99108