รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Flood level continues to decrease as storm “Wipha” weakens

วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 24 กรกฎาคม 2568
24/07/2568
พิมพ์
Flood level continues to decrease as storm “Wipha” weakens
Flood level continues to decrease as storm “Wipha” weakens
July 24, 2025, Government Spokesperson disclosed that the Government has ordered all relevant agencies to proceed according to plan in response to storm “Wipha” and its impact.
A report was received from the Department of Disaster Prevention and Mitigation (DDPM), Ministry of Interior, that DDPM has sent out warning messages since Monday through the Cell Broadcast emergency alert system, and instructed government agencies at the provincial, district, and village levels to alert local residents in the risk-prone areas through all channels possible including village broadcast towers. Flood, Storm, and Landslide Disaster Relief Operations Center, chaired by Deputy Minister of Interior Theerarat Samrejvanich, also meets daily to closely follow up on the situation. The Thai Meteorological Department also reported this morning that storm Wipha has weakened, resulting in the decrease of water level in Nan province. This water volume will later pass through Uttaradit province into Sirikit Dam.
DDPM has set up a command center in Chiang Mai even prior to the entering of storm Wipha into Thailand, and mobilized forces to assist evacuation of the people. The Department will reassess overall situation today and make decisions on appropriate actions to be carried out based on different situations in each area, as floodwater in some areas is receding, while many have been damaged by landslides.
Ministry of Interior has instructed provinces affected by flood disaster to inspect and collect data for the purpose of assisting and providing remedies to affected victims. These data will later be submitted to the cabinet as part of the request for budget allocation to support recovery endeavors in all dimensions. Flood, Storm, and Landslide Disaster Relief Operations Center will continue to monitor the situation at all times until things turn normalcy.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/98746