รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-11 Agreements reached at extraordinary RBC meeting between Thailand and Cambodia

วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 28 สิงหาคม 2568
28/08/2568
พิมพ์
11 Agreements reached at extraordinary RBC meeting between Thailand and Cambodia
11 Agreements reached at extraordinary RBC meeting between Thailand and Cambodia
August 27, 2025, Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub, as member of Ad Hoc Center for Thailand-Cambodia Border Situation, revealed the outcome of the Extraordinary Regional Border Committee (RBC) Meeting between the 2nd Army Area of the Kingdom of Thailand and the 4th Military Region of the Kingdom of Cambodia, according to which 11 points of agreement have been reached as follows:
Both sides reaffirm the unwavering commitments to implementing decisions made at the Special Meeting on 28 July 2025 and the Extraordinary GBC Meeting on 7 August 2025.
Both sides agree to maintain regular communications between all military regions and army areas and units along the border of both sides and strive to resolve all issues peacefully and avoid clashes. Both sides underline the importance of further intensifying the communication at all levels in order to build trust, and promote good neighborliness.
Both sides also commit to refraining from disseminating false information or fake news in order to de-escalate tensions, mitigate negative public sentiment, and seek to establish practical measures to foster an environment conducive to peaceful dialogue.
Both sides agree not to expand the scope and scale of the disputes, including provocative activities by either military personnel or civilians that may escalate tensions such as inflammatory speech and military activities that encroach into the other side as it was when the ceasefire entered into force at 24:00 hours (local time) on 28 July 2025.
Any actions to ensure safety, including patrols and the construction or enhancement of infrastructure or fortifications, strictly of a non-offensive nature and confined strictly to one’s own side, may be carried out by either side in full compliance of the terms of the ceasefire reached by both sides at the Special Meeting on 28 July 2025 in Putrajaya, and the Extraordinary GBC Meeting on 7 August 2025 in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. This measure is intended to foster an atmosphere of mutual trust and cooperation between the two sides.
Both sides underscored the positive momentum and progress achieved through these engagements in advancing cooperation across all sectors, with the shared aim of returning to normalcy.
Both sides reaffirmed the importance of humanitarian demining and agreed to refer this issue, which falls under the mandate of the GBC, to the upcoming GBC Meeting, which is scheduled to take place soon, as agreed by both sides.
Both sides agreed in principle to establish a Coordinating Group (CG) to enhance communication at all levels, including between commanders, border liaison working groups, standing forces in the border areas, and operational units along the Cambodia - Thailand border, with the aim of resolving all issues peacefully and avoid clashes. The details will be discussed in the next RBC. In the interim, prior to the establishment of the CG, local task force commanders from both sides, including the Thailand-Cambodia and Cambodia-Thailand Border Coordination Units, will meet weekly, or as appropriate, to resolve issues arising within their respective areas of responsibility.
Both sides reaffirmed their willingness to cooperate and collaborate with each other in combating and preventing transnational crimes, including call center operations (online scams), drug trafficking, human trafficking, weapons trafficking, and other cross-border criminal activities by exploring concrete and practical cooperation through existing frameworks. These issues, which fall under the mandate of the GBC, should be addressed at the upcoming GBC Meeting, which is scheduled to take place soon, as agreed by both sides.
Both sides reaffirmed the importance of an effective and prompt response to protests on any disputes arising along the border, and agreed to refer the issues, which cannot be resolved at the Regional Border Committee (RBC) level, to the General Border Committee (GBC) Meeting or to other appropriate mechanisms as agreed by both sides.
The date of the next RBC meeting will be held within a month after this meeting, or as appropriate, with Cambodia as the hosting state.
The Government Spokesperson expressed confidence that the outcome would help de-escalate the conflict, and promote peacekeeping along the border. The Government is ready to deploy proper and necessary mechanisms to protect national sovereignty, territorial integrity, and, most importantly, to ensure people’s safety. The above outcome reflects Thailand’s sincerity and commitment to minimizing border tension and establishing peace, as agreed upon at the earlier General Border Committee (GBC) meeting on August 7, 2025 in Malaysia.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/100211