รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Makeshift bomb trap planted by Cambodian soldiers discovered on Thai territory

วันพุธที่ 3 กันยายน 2568
03/09/2568
พิมพ์
Makeshift bomb trap planted by Cambodian soldiers discovered on Thai territory
Makeshift bomb trap planted by Cambodian soldiers discovered on Thai territory
September 3, 2025, at 0700hrs, Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub, as member of Ad Hoc Center for Thailand-Cambodia Border Situation, updated overall situation along the Thai -Cambodian border in 7 provinces as of this morning that the situation remains stable with no report of any clash nor violence. Military forces continue to closely monitor the situation and stay vigilant at all times.
On September 2, the 2nd Army Area discovered a makeshift bomb trap made from a mortar shell near Prasat Ta Khwai in Surin Province, which was later confirmed to be planted by the Cambodian soldiers, a clear evidence of Cambodia intrusion into the Thai soil to plant explosives. Additionally, movements of Cambodian soldiers have been detected, and a Cambodian surveillance drone was also observed in the areas of Chong An Ma, Sattaphasom – Phu Phi – Don Tuan, and Chong Sai Takoo. The anti-drone system was immediately deployed when the drone entered the Thai sovereign airspace.
The Government, through Ministry of Defense, has ordered military forces and concerned security agencies to collect all related evidences to be sent to Ministry of Foreign Affairs to proceed with a formal protest to the Cambodian Government. The military forces were also instructed to beef up their patrols and surveillance to prevent such further acts, protect national security, and ensure safety of the border people.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the 31st meeting of the Ad Hoc Center for Thailand-Cambodia Border Situation, chaired by Deputy Minister of Defense Gen Nattaphon Narkphanit, will be held later today to assess the situation and deliberate building of border wall along the Thai-Cambodian border in Sakaeo province to tackle cybercrimes and human trafficking. The meeting will also follow up on the solutions to migrant worker problem.
The Government Spokesperson affirmed that the Government continues to closely monitor the Thailand – Cambodia situation with its top priority as safety of the people living along the 7 border provinces. It will also continue to protest Cambodia through diplomatic channels, and stands ready to take military action if Thailand's sovereignty is blatantly violated.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/100360