รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with UNESCO Director-General

วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 26 มิถุนายน 2568
26/06/2568
พิมพ์
PM meets with UNESCO Director-General
PM meets with UNESCO Director-General
June 25, 2025, at 0930hrs, at the Lotus Suite 11, Centara Grand Bangkok Convention Center at Central World, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra met with H.E. Ms. Audrey Azoulay, Director-General of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) on occasion of the latter’s visit to Thailand to attend the 3rd UNESCO Global Forum on the Ethics of AI (GFEAI 2025). Deputy Government Spokesperson Sasikarn Watthanachan disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed UNESCO Director-General to Thailand, and congratulated the success of the 3rd UNESCO Global Forum on the Ethics of AI (GFEAI 2025). The Director-General thanked the Prime Minister and Thailand for hosting the event, which encouraged exchange of knowledge, good practices and experiences among member states on ethical development and use of artificial intelligence. She also commended the Government’s policy on promotion of digital economy and society, and AI.
The UNESCO Director-General mentioned her visits to several education institutions in Thailand, and praised the Thai Government for promoting digital awareness in schools to ensure that the younger generations utilize AI in an effective and ethical manner. The Prime Minister affirmed Thailand’s commitment to promote digital and AI policies, innovation and creativity, expansion of the digital sector, and adoption of AI.
With the collaboration with world’s leading firms, i.e., Google, Microsoft, etc., the Thai Government also strives to increase investment in digital infrastructure, while developing future talents through digital transformation in education. Additionally, scholarships are provided to Thai youths to pursue bachelor's and master's degrees in technology and AI. The One District One Scholarship (ODOS) scheme is also implemented to support Thai students to attend summer schools abroad. Both the Prime Minister and UNESCO Director-General agreed that education is key to preparing people for the future world of digital technology and AI.
The two parties also discussed promoting women's education in data science and AI. UNESCO Director-General emphasized that women currently make up only 12% of data scientists, and there is a need to create more opportunities for women to take up AI and STEM careers.
The Prime Minister affirmed her support on the promotion of AI ethics in line with UNESCO’s guidelines. Thailand has established AI Governance Practice Center (AIGPC), a regional hub for Artificial Intelligence (AI) governance and a mechanism designed to empower UNESCO member states—especially developing countries—to harness AI in ways that are responsible, transparent, and fair.
UNESCO Director-General expressed full support for the establishment of AIGPC, and commended Thailand's soft power policy promotion through intangible heritages, especially handicrafts, arts and food. The Prime Minister stated that the Government has planned to expand soft power promotion to cover education, sports, film, and creative media, leveraging cultural heritages and craftsmanship skills to drive forward the economy. The Director-General added that UNESCO, through its regional office in Bangkok, is keen to cooperate with the Thai Government, and invited the Prime Minister to visit UNESCO Headquarters in Paris.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/97864