รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Foreign Minister held discussions with the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam

วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 31 กรกฎาคม 2568
31/07/2568
พิมพ์
Foreign Minister held discussions with the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam
and the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Japan to inform them of the developments surrounding the border situation developments.
He reaffirmed Thailand’s staunch commitment to the ceasefire agreement and readiness to defend our sovereignty and territorial integrity against any aggression. Vietnam and Japan expressed understanding of Thailand’s position and offered support that would contribute to regional peace and stability.
On 30 July 2025 at 19.00 hrs., Mr. Jirayu Huangsab, Government Spokesperson and member of the Ad Hoc Center for Thailand-Cambodia Border Situation, briefed on the outcome of the discussions between H.E. Mr. Maris Sangiampongsa, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Thailand, with (1) H.E. Mr. Bui Thanh Son, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam, who was on a visit to Thailand as guest of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and (2) H.E. Mr. Iwaya Takeshi, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Japan.
The Vietnamese Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs expressed concern over the escalation of the Thai - Cambodian border situation and inquired about the current development. As fellow ASEAN member, the Vietnamese side reaffirmed support for the ceasefire as well as a peaceful resolution through constructive dialogue and diplomacy, with a view to preserving regional peace and stability.
In response, the Thai Foreign Minister expressed appreciation to his Vietnamese counterpart for the understanding towards Thailand’s position, and reaffirmed Thailand’s adherence to the principles of peaceful coexistence, good neighbourly relations, and the use of diplomatic means to address and resolve the situation.
In addition, both sides exchanged views on approaches to strengthen bilateral cooperation across various sectors, with a view to establishing a solid foundation for mutually beneficial long-term collaborations. This includes support for regional connectivity through enhancement of infrastructure, development of transportation routes, promotion of cross-border tourism, and exchange of high-level visits.
Both sides also agreed on the importance of strengthening multilateral cooperation, particularly the upcoming visit to Thailand by the Vietnamese Prime Minister to attend the 5th Mekong - Lancang Cooperation (MLC) Leaders’ Meeting later this year. The MLC will serve not only as a platform to advance subregional cooperation, but also as a key opportunity to further deepen the strategic partnership between Thailand and Viet Nam.
During the telephone conversation between the Thai Foreign Minister and his Japanese counterpart, the Japanese Foreign Minister expressed concern over the heightened tensions along the Thai - Cambodian border. The Thai Foreign Minister informed his Japanese counterpart of the facts surrounding the current situation and reiterated Thailand’s determination to resolve the issue through existing bilateral mechanisms in good faith and by peaceful means, in accordance with ASEAN principles. The Japanese Foreign Minister affirmed support towards Thailand’s efforts and expressed readiness to help resolve the issue, should all parties reach a consensus, in its capacity as a friend of both sides.
Furthermore, both sides also exchanged views on promoting Thai - Japanese cooperation in various sectors, especially in the areas of trade and investment. In this regard, the Thai Foreign Minister extended an invitation to the Japanese Foreign Minister to pay a visit Thailand to forge ways and means to achieve concrete outcomes in the near future.
“Such discussions reflect a positive signal and underscores Thailand’s proactive role in clarifying facts and developments surrounding the situation to the international community, reaffirming the country’s firm commitment to peaceful approaches and readiness to coordinate with all parties to uphold regional peace and stability. It also demonstrates that many countries, including Viet Nam and Japan, have an understanding of the current situation and recognize Thailand’s approach of addressing tensions with patience, restraint, and in accordance with international agreements and the principles of good neighbourliness”, added the Government Spokesperson.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/99154