รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Official Statement by the Royal Thai Government

วันศุกร์ที่ 25 กรกฎาคม 2568
25/07/2568
พิมพ์
Official Statement by the Royal Thai Government
Official Statement by the Royal Thai Government
My fellow Thai citizens,
Currently, Thailand is facing threats to our sovereignty and territorial integrity from Cambodia. Although in the past few months we have exercised our utmost restraint and patience in the face of provocations and aggression, and have chosen to adhere to peaceful means in accordance with international law and humanitarian principles.
Therefore, it is deeply regretful that Cambodia has chosen to use military force and opened fire first. This is a severe violation of international law and humanitarian principles as their attack has targeted hospitals and residential areas resulting in the immense loss of lives and properties, including 13 civilian fatalities among which are women, children and the elderly. This can be considered a war crime.
Yesterday, the Thai Foreign Minister briefed the United Nations Secretary-General on the facts of the current situation. In addition, the Thai Government sent a letter to the United Nations Security Council to inform the Council of the facts and to condemn in the strongest terms these indiscriminate and armed attacks, especially against innocent civilians, as well as invite the international community to also condemn this inhumane attack.
The government expresses its deepest condolences for the loss suffered by our citizens and reaffirms that throughout this period, the government has not stood idle since Cambodia fired the first shot. The Thai armed forces have responded within a limited perimeter targeting only key bases from which attacks against Thai civilians have been made, based on the inherent right of self-defense under international law and the United Nations Charter. They have destroyed Cambodian military bases.
We have now had to evacuate people numbering in the hundred thousand from the affected areas. We will also issue assistance in the form of compensation for the families of the deceased totaling 1 million baht per person; 700,000 baht for the disabled; 200,000 baht for the severely injured; and 100,000 baht for the injured. Furthermore, we have coordinated with all airlines to arrange special flights to bring Thai nationals in Cambodia back home safely in the case of emergency. Tomorrow, the minister assigned will travel to the affected areas covering four provinces namely, Ubon Ratcha Thani, Si Sa Ket, Surin and Buriram. This is to instill confidence in the people in the affected areas to feel safe and to give them moral encouragement and support.
This is a time when all Thais must unite as one to send encouragement and moral support to all our soldiers who are on duty to protect our sovereignty and territorial integrity as well as the safety of the people in the affected areas. I would like to emphasize that the current situation is a dispute between the governments and armed forces of both countries and not between the people. This is not a declaration of war but merely a clash along the border in order to protect our sovereignty and territorial integrity and to respond to the aggression.
Finally, it is with our utmost gratitude that Their Majesties the King and Queen have expressed their concern and given their encouragement to their subjects that have suffered losses from the current tensions in the area and have graciously placed all of the injured and wounded under their royal patronage.
25 July 2025

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/98856