รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Govt to bring all children back to education system through implementation of “Thailand Zero Dropout” scheme


วันอังคารที่ 2 กรกฎาคม 2567
Govt to bring all children back to education system through implementation of “Thailand Zero Dropout” scheme
Govt to bring all children back to education system through implementation of “Thailand Zero Dropout” scheme
July 2, 2024, Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed about the concern of Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin over the future of Thai youths. He has ordered relevant agencies to work in an integrated manner in addressing the problem of out-of-school children (OOSC) through identifying youths, ages 3 - 18 years, who are invisible in the national education system or who are dropped out, and bringing them back in the education system. This is to be in accordance with the Government's “Thailand Zero Dropout” policy aiming to develop the nation’s human capital for sustainable future. Searching operation for the dropouts in each province will be kicked off from July 2024 onward.
The cabinet, in its meeting on May 28, 2024, approved the “Thailand Zero Dropout” policy, making it a national agenda. The Thailand Zero Dropout policy consists of 4 key measures:
1. Searching for, locating, and identifying OOSC and dropouts through an integrated operation of relevant agencies
2. Monitoring, assisting, referring, and caring for OOSC through an integrated operation of relevant agencies in a bid to provide suitable assistance to each youth in terms of education, health, livelihood, and social condition
3. Creating flexible and quality learning which is tailored to the potential of these children to maximize their development and education opportunity
4. Encouraging private sector participation in the curriculum planning and education management to promote “Learn to Earn” program
Searching operation for the dropouts will be supported by the application “Thai Zero Dropout”. The application will help with surveying, planning, assisting, connecting, and referring the youths, as well as following up on the operation progress at both the local and national levels.
According to the national database, over 1.02 million youths, ages 3 - 18 years, are invisible in the national education system. The Prime Minister emphasized that the Government places great priority on the development of children and youths for the country’s future.
UNESCO and UNICEF define “OOSC” in 5 dimensions as follows:
1. Pre-primary age children out-of-school
2. Primary age children out-of-school
3. Lower secondary age children out-of-school
4. Primary students at risk
5. Lower secondary students at risk

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/85297