รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on March 27, 2025


วันจันทร์ที่ 31 มีนาคม 2568
31/03/2568
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on March 27, 2025
The cabinet met on March 27, 2025
Title: Draft Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code on Tax Exemption (No. ..) B.E. .... (Tax measures to support uses of large commercial electric vehicles)
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code on Tax Exemption (No. ..) B.E. .... (Tax measures to support uses of large commercial electric vehicles), as proposed by Ministry of Finance.
Gist
The draft Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code on Tax Exemption (No. ...) B.E. .... (Tax measures to support uses of large commercial electric vehicles) is proposed according to the resolution of the National Electric Vehicle Policy Committee to exempt corporate income tax for companies or juristic partnerships for income equivalent to the expenses paid for investment in commercial electric vehicles (electric buses and electric trucks). A deduction of 100% (2 times) is applied for investment expenses in electric vehicles manufactured or assembled in Thailand, and a deduction of 50% (1.5 times) for investment expenses in electric vehicles that are imported and fully assembled overseas.
Title: Draft Royal Decree on Transfer of Ownership of Public Domain Land for People’s Common Use in General Industrial Zone of Sinsakorn Industrial Estate (Khok Kham Subdistrict, Muang District, Samut Sakhon Province), to Industrial Estate Authority of Thailand, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Royal Decree on Transfer of Ownership of Public Domain Land for People’s Common Use in General Industrial Zone of Sinsakorn Industrial Estate (Khok Kham Subdistrict, Muang District, Samut Sakhon Province), to Industrial Estate Authority of Thailand, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
The proposal was made in accordance with Section 36/1 of the Industrial Estate Authority of Thailand Act, B.E. 2522, which stipulates as “In case there has been issued a notification under Section 36, paragraph two, to establish or change an industrial estate, and there is a public domain within the said area, a Royal Decree may be enacted to change the status of the public domain, by specifying, in such Royal Decree, the plots and the estimated amount of land whose ownership IEAT wishes to acquire. And upon the said Royal Decree having been enacted, the public domain located within the said area shall be vested in IEAT”
Twelve plots of land in General Industrial Zone of Sinsakorn Industrial Estate in Khok Kham Subdistrict, Muang District, Samut Sakhon Province, with the combined size of 10 rai and 15.3 square wah, had been a public domain for common use, and were now abandoned.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for electric irons, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for electric irons, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for electric irons, B.E. …, prescribes revocation of Thai Industrial Standard for electric irons under TIS 366-2547 and determines new Thai Industrial Standard for electric irons under TIS 60335 Book 2 (3)-2567. This is to be in line with current technical advancement and standards, as the old standard was put in place for over 5 years. The draft Ministerial Regulation shall take effect 180 days after being announced in the Royal Gazette.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for escalators and moving walks (safety requirements), B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for escalators and moving walks (safety requirements), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for escalators and moving walks (safety requirements), B.E. …, stipulates that escalators and moving walks must comply with TIS 3778, Volume 1-2567, according to the Ministry of Industry's announcement on determining industrial standards for escalators and moving walk, safety requirements, Volume 1, Essential Global Safety Requirements (GESR), B.E. 2567, dated 28 June 2024.
The draft Ministerial Regulation shall take effect 90 days after being announced in the Royal Gazette.
Title: Royal Decree on Re-Election of Member of House of Representatives for Nakhon Si Thammarat Province, Constituency 8, B.E. ....
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on Re-Election of Member of House of Representatives for Nakhon Si Thammarat Province, Constituency 8, B.E. .... to fill in vacancy, following disqualification of former MP Mukdawan Luangsinil in accordance with Article 101 (6) of the Constitution of Thailand.
Gist
The re-election shall be held within 45 days after the vacancy (by April 3, 2025). It is expected that the reelection will take place on May 4, 2025.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/94887