รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on December 26, 2023. 


วันอังคารที่ 2 มกราคม 2567
02/01/2567
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on December 26, 2023.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Labor Ministerial Announcement on Extension of Remittance of Contributions and Submission of Statement Showing Payment of Contributions (e-Payment), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Labor Ministerial Announcement on Extension of Remittance of Contributions and Submission of Statement Showing Payment of Contributions (e-Payment), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Labor.
Gist
The draft Labor Ministerial Announcement on Extension of Remittance of Contributions and Submission of Statement Showing Payment of Contributions (e-Payment), B.E. …, prescribes extension of period for the employer to remit contributions and submit statement showing payment of contributions in accordance with Section 47 of the Social Security Act, B.E.2533 (1990), as amended by the Social Security Act (No. 4), B.E. 2558 (2015) (e-Payment) for another 7 days from the fifteenth day of the month following the month of deduction and shall submit statement showing payment of contributions for wages paid during Janaury and December 2024 (12 months). This shall take effect from Janaury 1, 2024 onward.
Title: Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Revenue Taxes (No. …) B.E. … (Extension of tax measure to support donation to Equitable Education Fund)
The cabinet approved in principle the Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Revenue Taxes (No. …) B.E. … (Extension of tax measure to support donation to Equitable Education Fund), as proposed by Ministry of Finance. The Equitable Education Fund was also assigned to promote and create awareness on the tax benefit gained from donating to the Equitable Education Fund.
Gist
In a bid to continue encouraging the private sector to make financial contribution to the Equitable Education Fund which would offload the Government’s financial burden on education promotion and minimize educational disparity, Ministry of Finance proposed the Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Revenue Taxes (No. …) B.E. … (Extension of tax measure to support donation to Equitable Education Fund). Under the Royal Decree, donation money will be calculated by double deduction of actual donated via e-payment for the period of Janaury 1, 2024 to December 31, 2029.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Reduction of fee for Partnerships and Limited Companies located in Special Development Zone, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Reduction of fee for Partnerships and Limited Companies located in Special Development Zone, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Commerce.
Gist
Following the cabinet’s approval in 2002 on Reduction in Fees and Fee Exemptions for Registration, Document Inspection, Certification of Documents and Other Fees Relating to Partnerships and Limited Companies whose registered office is located in Narathiwat, Pattani, Yala, Songkhla (only in Chana, Thepha, Na Thawi and Saba Yoi districts) and Satun provinces, the cabinet has approved 5 extensions on the aforementioned fee reduction scheme in a bid to promote local economy and the Government’s development projects in the Southern border area.
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Reduction of fees for Partnerships and Limited Companies located in Special Development Zone, B.E. … is the latest extension to this Government’s effort. It prescribes 50% fee reduction for registration, document inspection, certification of documents and other fees related to partnerships and limited companies in Narathiwat, Pattani, Yala, Songkhla (only in Chana, Thepha, Na Thawi and Saba Yoi districts) and Satun provinces during the period of January 1, 2024 and December 31, 2026.
Title: Overview of Economic and Trade Indices for November 2023
The cabinet acknowledged the Overview of Economic and Trade Indices for November 2023, as proposed by Ministry of Commerce.
Gist
According to the report,
· Consumer Price Index (CPI) in November 2023: 107.45  (-0.44%YoY) and -0.25% (MoM)
· Headline inflation rate: -0.4%YoY
· Core inflation rate: +0.58%YoY
· Average CPI over the last 11 months (January – November 2023): +1.41%AoA
· Consumer Confidence Index (CCI): 55.0
· Headline inflation rate for 2023 is estimated at 1.0-1.7%
Title: Thailand’s Nomination for Deputy Director-General of Centre for IMT - GT Subregional Cooperation (CIMT)
The cabinet approved the nomination of Ms. Duangruethai Surasakjinda as Thai representative to assume the position of Deputy Director-General of Centre for IMT - GT Subregional Cooperation (CIMT) for the period of 2024-2028. This is as proposed by Office of National Economic and Social Development Council.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/76873