รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on December 27, 2022


วันพุธที่ 28 ธันวาคม 2565
28/12/2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on December 27, 2022
The cabinet met on December 27, 2022. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Specific Business Tax Exemption (No. …) B.E. … (Specific business tax exemption for Office of SMEs Promotion (OSMEP)’s SMEs Support Program loan through Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) Promotion Fund)
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Specific Business Tax Exemption (No. …) B.E. … (Specific business tax exemption for Office of SMEs Promotion (OSMEP)’s SMEs Support Program loan through Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) Promotion Fund), as proposed by Ministry of Finance.
Gist
The draft Royal Decree prescribes specific business tax exemption for Office of SMEs Promotion (OSMEP)’s SMEs Support Program loan through Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) Promotion Fund, which is earlier approved by the cabinet on August 20, 2019. This shall take effect from September 1, 2020 onward.
Title: Guidelines on promotion of right to health for migrant workers and stateless children
The cabinet acknowledged resolutions of the National Health Commission (NHC) on the right to health of migrant workers and stateless children, and assigned concerned agencies, i.e., Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Labor, Ministry of Public Health, Ministry of Social Development and Human Security, the Royal Thai Police, Social Security Office, Office of National Security Council, Office of National Economic and Social Development Council, National Health Security Office, and local authorities to proceed with the NHC’s resolutions.
Gist
NHC’s resolution on the right to health of migrant workers will be a guideline for the protection of right to health and fair access to healthcare services of migrant workers in Thailand. NHC views that a number of actions needs to be implemented in order to protect their right to health, i.e., integration of migrant worker management strategy in the national development plan, drafting of migrant workers’ health related law to ensure their access to health security and services as economic citizens, and development of health security scheme that covers migrant workers of all groups.
NHC’s resolution on the right to health of stateless children sets the guideline for the protection of right to health and fair access to healthcare services of stateless children in Thailand in accordance with the human rights principles and international conventions. Actions that need to be undertaken include development and improvement of birth certification/registration criteria and procedure for stateless children, law revision, public healthcare service development, and provision of basic medical privileges.
NHC is of the view that the above guidelines and actions should be promptly undertaken to ensure fair, equal, and indiscriminate access of migrant workers and stateless children to health security and basic healthcare services. This is also to prevent spread of the diseases, including the COVID-19, which would impact the nation’s health security and economy.
Title: Subsidy for state welfare card holders as New Year gift
The cabinet approved a 1-month subsidy for state welfare card holders as the Government’s New Year present.
Gist
The cabinet has made approval to an allocation of 2.644 billion Baht from the Government’s contingency fund for emergency (FY2023) to mitigate financial burden of 13.2 million state welfare card holders through the additional subsidy of 200 Baht/person for 1 month (January 2023). With the additional subsidy, 3.54 million state welfare card holders, who have been supported with 200 Baht/person/month subsidy will receive the total of 400 Baht/person/month, and another 9.68 million, who have been supported with 300 Baht/person/month subsidy will receive the total of 500 Baht/person/month in January 2023.
The reason behind this approval is to boost purchasing power of low-income earners. Although the COVID-19 situation has eased, global economic situation remains unstable. With the high inflation rate and continued gasoline price hike, the country’s consumer prices have increased, which directly impact state welfare card holders who are vulnerable to poverty.
Title: Free insurance for members of National Village and Urban Community Fund
The cabinet acknolwledged a proposal of Office of the Prime Minister on provision of free insurance for members of National Village and Urban Community Fund during the 2023 New Year holiday. Dhipaya Insurance Public Company Limited’s “micro insurance”, with the coverage of 100,000 Baht and coverage period of 30 days after the registration date, will be offered to members of National Village and Urban Community Fund throughout the country during the 2023 New Year holiday, as a New Year gift from the Government. Those who are interested may register for the free coverage during December 25-31, 2022. Further detail can be obtained via Hotline 1736.
Title: Rename of Kazakhstan’s capital
The cabinet acknowledged the change of official name of Kazakhstan’s capital from “Nur-Sultan” to “Astana”, and Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ relevant protocol to change the name of the Royal Thai Embassy in Nur-Sultan to the Royal Thai Embassy in Astana.
Gist
On January 28, 2020, the cabinet acknowledged the change of official name of Kazakhstan’s capital from “Astana” to “Nur-Sultan” in honor of the 1st Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev, according to which Ministry of Foreign Affairs proceeded with relevant protocol to rename the Royal Thai Embassy in the country. Later in 2022, however, the Kazakhs voted for constitutional changes in a referendum, and the decision has been made to rename the country’s capital back to “Astana”.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/63228