รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM proposes 3 important agendas at ASEAN-EU Commemorative Summit


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 15 ธันวาคม 2565
พิมพ์
​PM proposes 3 important agendas at ASEAN-EU Commemorative Summit
​PM proposes 3 important agendas at ASEAN-EU Commemorative Summit
December 14, 2022, at 14.45 hrs (Brussels local time), at the Europa Building, Brussels, Kingdom of Belgium, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha, together with leaders/representatives of EU and ASEAN member states, attended the ASEAN-EU Commemorative Summit to mark the 45th anniversary of ASEAN-EU relations.
According to the Prime Minister, the first-ever summit between the leaders/representatives of 27 EU and 10 ASEAN member states reflects commitment of both the regions to work together in addressing problems, and bring about peace and people’s wellbeing. The past 45 years proves the importance and benefit of EU-ASEAN Strategic Partnership to both regions and the global community.
The Prime Minister also cited 3 important agendas that would contribute to the achievement of regional and global goals:
1. Response to geopolitical volatility and security challenges: The Prime Minister hopes to see EU’s constructive interaction with all sides to promote cooperation and the atmosphere conducive to regional development. He believes that there is a need for all parties concerned to create diplomatic space that leads to an exit strategy. Thailand proposes a peace initiative by way of separating conflict from economic cooperation and humanitarian assistance in a bid to build upon the success of Black Sea Grain Initiative. The Prime Minister also called on EU to work together with the countries concerned and UN to push ahead a resolution to allow humanitarian air services to be delivered to Ukraine.
2. Green transition for sustainability: Global crises, especially natural disasters, underscore the need to promote green partnership between ASEAN and EU. As ASEAN’s Coordinator for Sustainable Development, Thailand commits to cooperate with EU in promoting technical cooperation, and sharing of knowledge and experiences to elevate ASEAN’s environmental standard. The Prime Minister hopes that environmental standard would not be used as an excuse for unfair trade practices, which will undermine ASEAN’s effort in this endeavor. Thailand also stands ready to promote food security, and is set to host an international conference on global food security and sustainability next year, in which the Prime Minister extended his invitation for all the leaders to participate.
3. Digital transition: Thailand endorses EU’s Global Gateway Initiative to develop quality
Infrastructure, including digital infrastructure, in line with international standards. The Prime Minister also proposes an organization of ASEAN-EU Artificial intelligence (AI) workshop to promote economic and environmental growth.
In closing, the Prime Minister proposed for ASEAN’s engagement in EU’s goods production, and stated that ASEAN and EU cooperation would bring about positive changes to the world.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/62704