รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM witnesses signing of PCA EU-Thai


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 15 ธันวาคม 2565
พิมพ์
​PM witnesses signing of PCA EU-Thai
​PM witnesses signing of PCA EU-Thai
December 14, 2022, at 17.15 hrs (Brussels local time), at the Europa Building, Brussels, Kingdom of Belgium, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha, together with Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Don Pramudwinai, attended the signing ceremony of Framework Agreement on Comprehensive Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Kingdom of Thailand, of the other part), or PCA EU-Thai. Representing EU were president of the European Council Charles Michel, president of the European Commission Ursula Gertrud von der Leyen, Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Petr Fiala (in his capacity as president of the European Council), and High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Josep Borrell Fontelles.
The PCA EU-Thai will enhance political dialogue on issues of global concern and will give more scope for mutually-beneficial cooperation in a wide number of policy areas.
Benefits Thailand will gain from this Agreement are as follows:
1. National competitiveness will be enhanced, in line with the international standard and global development trend, leading to a new round of Thailand-EU FTA negotiation
2. Sharing of knowledge and excellent practices from EU, and increase of access to research funding and EU’s various capacity building programs
3. It is an opportunity for Thailand to share and exchange excellent practices in the fields of its expertise, i.e., the Universal Healthcare Scheme
4. The Agreement reflects that Thailand is now EU’s close and trusted partner through shared international values
5. Both parties hope for the translation of PCA EU-Thai into concrete action for mutual interest. Thailand also hopes that the Agreement would be the first step toward Thailand-EU strategic partnership
The PCA EU-Thai covers various areas of cooperation between Thailand and EU, both bilateral, regional, and international, be it, political, socio-economic, and environmental issues. It will positively shape relations and tangible cooperation, as well as negotiation framework between both sides in years to come.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/62682