รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM pleased with Thailand’s popularity as foreign filming location


วันเสาร์ที่ 20 พฤษภาคม 2566
​PM pleased with Thailand’s popularity as foreign filming location
​PM pleased with Thailand’s popularity as foreign filming location
May 19, 2023, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha was pleased with Thailand’s popularity among foreign filmmakers, as the country has been chosen as one of the top shooting locations, and Thai movies have been recognized at an international level. Recently at the 13th Beijing International Film Festival held during April 25-27, 2023, Thailand was chosen as the Country of Honor.
The 13th Beijing International Film Festival is aiming to provide a forum for the interaction between Chinese and international film industries, such as South Korea, Malaysia, Jordan, and Thailand, among others. The festival includes sections, such as investment promotion exhibitions, project investment financing, industry dialogues, special events, signing ceremonies, film promotion meetings, etc.
Thailand Film Office under the Tourism Department, Ministry of Tourism and Sports collaborated with Ministry of Culture; Ministry of Foreign Affairs; and National Federation of Motion Pictures and Contents Associations (MPC) to set up a booth at the 13th BJIFF which could attract over 7 Chinese film makers (with an estimated investment of 750 million Baht) who chose Thailand as their filming location. Thailand Film Office is also ready to build upon the success at the Cannes Film Festival, held in mid-May, and promote special incentives for foreign filming production in the country, which include 20-30% cash rebate for 2 years. Further information may be obtained at the website: https://tfo.dot.go.th.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Prime Minister was pleased with the confidence of foreign filmmakers on Thailand which reflects the success of related policy implementation and the country’s capacity as top shooting location for foreign filming production. This could be built upon in other dimensions, such as in tourism industry, and the country’s other soft powers.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/68370