รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM to visit UK and Monaco during May 21-25, 2025


วันจันทร์ที่ 19 พฤษภาคม 2568
PM to visit UK and Monaco during May 21-25, 2025
PM to visit UK and Monaco during May 21-25, 2025
May 19, 2025, Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed that Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra and the delegation are scheduled to pay a visit to the United Kingdom and the Principality of Monaco during May 21 – 25, 2025.
The Prime Minister will leave in the evening of May 20 to arrive in London in the morning of May 21 at approx. 0730hrs. She will be accompanied by high-ranking officials from Ministry of Commerce, Ministry of Tourism and Sports, and other relevant agencies. The aim of this visit is to seek new opportunities for market expansion and value-added of Thai products, especially through soft powers in food, sports and tourism, as the EU is Thailand’s major market.
Upon arrival in the morning of May 21, the Prime Minister is scheduled to chair the launching ceremony of the new “Thai SELECT” logo. The event will also feature various tourism promotion activities, i.e., cultural performances, Muay Thai demonstration, and traditional massage, as well as the display of Thai food and fruits. The Prime Minister will also meet with the “Team Thailand”, UK’s food exporters, and representatives of the Association of Thai Businesses in the UK to explore new opportunities for market expansion and value-added of Thai products in the UK and EU, especially, vegetables, fruits, and Hom Mali rice. She will also present “Thai SELECT” certificates to 115 Thai restaurants that meet Thai SELECT standards, and listen to the briefing on guidelines for the development of Thai food businesses in the UK.
In the evening, the Prime Minister will visit a famous Muay Thai gym in London where she will have a talk with concerned parties on sports collaborations between Thailand and UK, and the development of trainer certification system for Muay Thai trainers abroad. This is part of the Government’s effort to promote the country’s soft powers.
On May 22, 2025, the Prime Minister will attend in-store promotion and Thai product promotion at Wing Yip Superstore (Cricklewood branch), one of UK's largest supermarket chains, importing over 4,500 Asian food products, among which over 1,000 are Thai products. In 2024, Thailand exported food products worth more than 33 billion Baht to the UK, accounting for 72% of total exports to the country.
In the afternoon, the Prime Minister will meet with the Executive Director of the Europe Region for the Tourism Authority of Thailand (TAT) to hand over policies and exchange views on how to promote Thai cultural tourism in line with the current demand of European tourists.
On May 23, 2025, the Prime Minister will leave London for Monte Carlo, the Principality of Monaco, and will meet with executives of Formula One Group to discuss the feasibility of Thailand’s hosting of a Formula 1 Grand Prix (City Circuit). She will also tour and attend the Formula 1 Tag Heuer Monaco Grand Prix, one of the world's most famous racetracks and man-made destinations.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Prime Minister’s visit is part of the Government’s proactive policies for economic development and promotion of trade, export, tourism and soft powers. Her visit is expected to boost global confidence in the country’s potentials. The Prime Minister strives to promote new forms of tourism for the development of creative economy, and sustainable market expansion

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/96529