รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM to attend 31st APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting and related meetings in Peru


วันเสาร์ที่ 9 พฤศจิกายน 2567
09/11/2567
พิมพ์
​PM to attend 31st APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting and related meetings in Peru
​PM to attend 31st APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting and related meetings in Peru
November 9, 2024, Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed that Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra is scheduled to travel to Los Angeles, USA, and to attend the 31st APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting and related meetings to be held in Lima, Republic of Peru during November 10-18, 2024.
Her visit to Los Angeles, USA will be a chance for the Prime Minister to meet with Thai ambassadors and consul-generals, as well as heads of the Team Thailand tenured in the American continents, and hand down policies to promote relations and cooperation between Thailand and countries in the American continents in an effective manner, in line with the Government’s policy targets which emphasize people’s centeredness. Cooperation areas to be focused on include security, human security, trade and investment in future and S-Curve industries, science, technology and innovation, clean energy and the green economy, and soft power.
The Prime Minister will also meet with the Thai residents in the U.S. which comprises over 400,000 people, the largest Thai community overseas. There are approx. 107,000 in Los Angeles and nearby areas alone who work as business operators, chefs, cooks, employees, students, etc.
The Prime Minister’s missions for the 31st APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting and related meetings, which consists of 21 member economies such as Thailand, the United States, Peru, Chile, Mexico, Russia, Australia, Canada, Japan, China, Hong Kong, New Zealand, etc., include formal meeting between APEC Economic Leaders and President’s special guests, luncheon between APEC Economic Leaders and the APEC Business Advisory Council, APEC CEO Summit, and APEC Economic Leaders’ Retreat.
"Thailand will take the opportunity to demonstrate its commitment on engaging in multilateral stages in a bid to build trust and affirm the continuity of its various policies, especially the Bangkok Goals on Bio-Circular-Green (BCG) Economy, while also playing an important role in APEC. The Prime Minister is also scheduled to have bilateral meetings with APEC Economic Leaders, including H.E. Ms. Dina Ercilia Boluarte Zegarra, the President of the Republic of Peru.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/90039