รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on January 28, 2025


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 30 มกราคม 2568
30/01/2568
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on January 28, 2025
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation prescribing state agency eligible for the request of administration actions from judicial officers (No. …), B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation prescribing state agency eligible for the request of administration actions from judicial officers (No. …), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Digital Economy and Society.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation prescribes Office of the Personal Data Protection Commission (PDPC) as state agencies eligible for the request of administration actions from judicial officers in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, B.E. 2539 (1996) and the revised Administrative Procedure Act (No. 3), B.E. 2562 (2019).
Title: Nomination of Nakhon Si Thammarat’s Wat Phra Mahathat Woramahawihan for UNESCO World Heritage status
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Culture:
Approved the document regarding the nomination of Nakhon Si Thammarat’s Wat Phra Mahathat Woramahawihan for UNESCO World Heritage status
Approved for chair of National Committee for World Heritage Convention to sign the document and submit to UNESCO World Heritage Centre in Paris, Republic of France
In the event that the World Heritage Centre approved completeness of the presentation document and has suggestions for amending the document without affecting gist of the presentation document, Fine Arts Department may proceed with the amendment according to the opinion of the World Heritage Centre, taking into consideration the opinions of Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) and Office of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy and Planning.
Thailand must submit the document to the World Heritage Centre by February 1, 2025 in order for the application for inscription to be processed in time for the 2025 World Heritage Committee review period.
Title: Equitable Education Fund’s 2026 budget expenditure plan
The cabinet approved the Equitable Education Fund (EEF)’s 2026 budget expenditure plan at the total of 7,987.61 million Baht. EEF will, then, prepare detailed budget proposal to the Budget Bureau.
Gist
The budget requested by EEF for FY2026 will be for the implementation of education and learning plans, teacher and student capacity building, and promotion of cooperation with network partners.
Title: 1/2025 Cabinet Retreat
The cabinet approved the 1/2025 cabinet retreat.
Gist
The 1/2025 cabinet retreat will be held on February 18, 2025 in Songkhla province. Earlier on February 16-18, cabinet members will follow up on progress of the project under respective responsibilities that are implemented in Southern Gulf of Thailand Provincial Cluster (Chumphon, Nakhon Si Thammarat, Phatthalung, Surat Thani, and Songkhla). Key issues to be followed up include
Follow the inspection of the Southern Gulf of Thailand Provinces (Chumphon, Nakhon Si Thammarat, Phatthalung, Surat Thani, and Songkhla) between Sunday 16 – Tuesday 18 February 2025, which has important inspection issues, including (1) Agricultural development towards modern agriculture and high-value agriculture (plants, fisheries, livestock, herbs, and economic trees), (2) Tourism and community tourism development towards sustainable high-value tourism, (3) Industrial development, BCG (Bio-Circular-Green) Economy, trade, investment, and border trade, (4) Development of infrastructure, transportation, logistics, communication networks, and energy, (5) Social development for social happiness and sustainable environment, and (6) Flood rehabilitation in the Southern region.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/92898