รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-4 Organisations Join Hands to Boost Thailand’s Economy with Thailand International Health Expo 2021


วันพุธที่ 10 มีนาคม 2564
4 Organisations Join Hands to Boost Thailand’s Economy with Thailand International Health Expo 2021
The Ministry of Public Health, together with Tourism Authority of Thailand (TAT), Thailand Convention and Exhibition Bureau (Public Organization) (TCEB) and Thai Health Promotion Foundation (ThaiHealth),
The Ministry of Public Health, together with Tourism Authority of Thailand (TAT), Thailand Convention and Exhibition Bureau (Public Organization) (TCEB) and Thai Health Promotion Foundation (ThaiHealth), would hold the event “Thailand International Health Expo 2021” in both online and on-ground platforms during 16 – 19 July 2021 at Royal Paragon Hall, Siam Paragon to boost the country’s health economy, present the best health system of Thailand and regain the confidence in COVID-19 situation administration of Thai government.
Today (10 March 2021) Mr. Anutin Charnvirakul, Deputy Prime Minister of Thailand and Minister of Public Health, together with Dr. Tares Krassanairawiwong, Director-General of Department of Health Service Support, Mr. Yuthasak Supasorn, Governor of the Tourism Authority of Thailand (TAT), Mr. Chiruit Isarangkun Na Ayuthaya, President of Thailand Convention and Exhibition Bureau (Public Organization) (TCEB) and Dr. Supreda Adulyanon, Chief Executive Officer of Thai Health Promotion Foundation (ThaiHealth), released a press statement on the event “Thailand International Health Expo 2021” at the Department of Health Service Support, Ministry of Public Health.
Mr. Anutin Charnvirakul, Deputy Prime Minister of Thailand and Minister of Public Health, stated that currently the situation of COVID-19 pandemic in Thailand has become better due to the cooperation among Thai people and the effective health system that was admitted internationally, as well as the distribution of COVID-19 vaccine. As a result, the government has eased some disease prevention measures to recover all sectors and regain the balance between healthcare and the country’s economy. The Ministry of Public Health, together with 3 allied organisations including Thailand Convention and Exhibition Bureau (Public Organization) (TCEB), Tourism Authority of Thailand (TAT) and Thai Health Promotion Foundation (ThaiHealth), will hold the event “Thailand International Health Expo 2021” in both online and on-ground platforms under the concept of “build health and promote economy for better quality of life” during 16 – 19 July 2021 at Royal Paragon Hall, Siam Paragon. The purposes are to present the best health system of Thailand, boost the confidence in COVID-19 situation administration of Thai government, prepare the system supporting tourists and businesspeople from abroad, as well as stimulate income distribution with activities in the event which will be another way to recover Thailand’s economy. In the estimation, there will be approximately 50,000 – 100,000 Thai and foreign participants at the mentioned event.
Dr. Tares Krassanairawiwong, Director-General of Department of Health Service Support said that the event “Thailand International Health Expo 2021” will hold for general people, health personnel and international public health practitioners. The event will link health systems with health industries from around the world and be divided into 5 zones including the exhibition zone of leading agencies that will be separated into 14 pavilions consisting of various topics, for example, the royal grace for Thailand’s health system, Hero of COVID-19 for admiring people who have brought considerable benefits to Thailand’s public health system, COVID-19 situation administration, COVID-19 vaccine, hemp and marijuana, the potential of Thailand’s surgeons and health system, Thai herbs etc., the stage zone that highlights medical activities and services, one-stop services such as applying for the license of health business operation, giving health advice from public and private agencies, providing services of advanced, traditional Thai and traditional Chinese medicine, medical check-up and massage etc., the business matching zone that is related to trade, investment and health services and the seminar and meeting zone that includes special lectures from public health professionals across the world.
Mr. Chiruit Isarangkun Na Ayuthaya, President of Thailand Convention and Exhibition Bureau (Public Organization) (TCEB) stated that one of TCEB’s policies is generating the cooperation between public and private allied agencies to promote MICE industries and to boost the growth of it at both national and international levels. The event “Thailand International Health Expo 2021” is the essential cooperation between TCEB and the allied organisations as one of the main hosts who arrange and manage the event. The purposes of the event are to provide the stage of an annual event related to public health and healthcare to people, to enhance knowledge and increase understanding about healthcare, to develop people’s participation and Thailand’s public health system, to generate revenue and boost the country’s economy, to raise the standards of MICE industries of Thailand, to form the foundation of cooperation and integration between public and private sectors to strengthen medical and public health industries, and to internationally present the potential and readiness of Thailand in the aspect of being the Medical and Wellness Hub at regional level.
************************************** 10  March 2021

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/39830