รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on March 3, 2025


วันอังคารที่ 11 มีนาคม 2568
11/03/2568
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on March 3, 2025
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Protection and Promotion of Thai Traditional Medicine Knowledge Act (No. …) B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Protection and Promotion of Thai Traditional Medicine Knowledge Act (No. …) B.E. …, and acknowledged a plan for the drafting of secondary laws, timeframe, and essence of the secondary laws issued under the draft Act. This is as proposed by Ministry of Public Health.
Gist
The draft Protection and Promotion of Thai Traditional Medicine Knowledge Act (No. …) B.E. … is aimed to add another category of the Thai traditional medical knowledge to be covered under the Protection and Promotion of Thai Traditional Medicine Knowledge Act.
The present Protection and Promotion of Thai Traditional Medicine Knowledge Act prescribes three categories of Thai traditional medical knowledge, namely, (1) national recipe of Thai traditional medicine or national treatise on Thai traditional medicine; (2) general recipe of Thai traditional medicine or general treatise on Thai traditional medicine; and (3) personal recipe of Thai traditional medicine or personal treatise on Thai traditional medicine. The approved draft Act will also include “community recipe of Thai traditional medicine or community treatise on Thai traditional medicine”. Fourteen secondary laws will be drafted according to the approved draft Act.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for 3-phase AC induction motors, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for 3-phase AC induction motors, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for 3-phase AC induction motors, B.E. …, is an amendment to the Thai Industrial Standard for 3-phase AC induction motors under TIS 867-2550, to set the new standard in accordance with TIS 866 Volume 30(101) – 2018 and with the international standard.
The draft Ministerial Regulation shall take effect 365 days after being announced in the Royal Gazette.
Title: Draft Interior Ministerial Notification on Enforcement of Comprehensive City Planning in Kanchanaburi’s Don Salab Community, B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Interior Ministerial Notification on Enforcement of Comprehensive City Planning in Kanchanaburi’s Don Salab Community, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Interior. The Ministry shall take opinions of Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, Ministry of Industry, and Ministry of Public Health into consideration.
Gist
The draft Interior Ministerial Notification prescribes enforcement of comprehensive city planning in Don Salab subdistrict, Huay Krajao district, Kanchanaburi province. This will be a guideline for the development and maintenance of the community in terms of property use, transportation, public utilities and services, and environment to accommodate future growth in accordance with the National Economic and Social Development Plan.
Title: Request for budget allocation for procurement of cloud seeding substance generators (formula 3: dry ice)
The cabinet approved the Government’s FY2025 central fund for emergency and contingency, at the amount of 200 million Baht for the procurement of cloud seeding substance generators (formula 3: dry ice), as proposed by Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives.
Gist
Department of Royal Rainmaking and Agricultural Aviation, under the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives needs a large amount of dry ice as part of its operations to prevent and solve drought, increase water volume in reservoirs across the country, and modify weather to prevent and solve related disasters, such as PM 2.5 particulates. However, dry ice provided by PTT Plc. each year is not sufficient. There is a need for the procurement of 4 cloud seeding substance generators to be used for rainmaking operations in Tak, Phitsanulok, Buriram, and Khon Kaen provinces
Title: Request for budget allocation for organization of Maha Songkran World Water Festival 2025
The cabinet approved the Government’s FY2025 central fund for emergency and contingency, at the amount of 153,034,700 Baht for the organization of “Maha Songkran World Water Festival 2025”, as proposed by Ministry of Tourism and Sports’ Tourism Authority of Thailand.
Gist
The requested budget will be used for the following activities of the “Maha Songkran World Water Festival 2025”:
Activities
Budget (Baht)
1. Organizing events at Sanam Luang Royal Plaza, Bangkok
93,264,800
2. Organizing parades
48,000,000
3. Publicity and advertisement
11,769,900
Over 800,000 foreign and Thai tourists are expected to attend the event, generating over 3.2 billion Baht.
Title: Removal of fishing vessels from the system for sustainable management of marine resources
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives:
Approved the project to remove fishing vessels from the system for sustainable management of marine resources
Approved the budget framework from the Government’s FY2025 central fund for emergency and contingency to compensate for the removal of 923 fishing vessels from the system at the amount of 1,622,605,300 Baht.
Gist
The project is aimed to:
1.1 Manage commercial fishing fleets by maintaining balance between the number of commercial fishing vessels and aquatic animals
1.2 Permanently remove fishing vessels from the system according to the country’s Marine Fisheries Management Plan
1.3 Encourage fishermen to pursue other occupations
1.4 Provide opportunities for fishermen to use their fishing vessels for other purposes than fishing
Title: Outcome documents of 69th Commission on the Status of Women (CSW69)
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Social Development and Human Security:
Approved the outcome documents of the 69th Commission on the Status of Women (CSW69). Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Social Development and Human Security may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
Authorized Minister of Social Development and Human Security or a representative, as head of the Thai delegation, to adopt the draft outcome documents during the CSW69, to be held during March 10-21, 2025 in United Nations Headquarters, New York.
Gist
CSW69 is scheduled for March 10-21, 2025 at the United Nations Headquarters in New York, USA, Two draft outcome documents to be adopted without signature are: 1) a draft Political Declaration on the Occasion of the Thirtieth Anniversary of the Fourth World Conference on Women; and 2) a draft Multi-year Programme of Work of the Commission on the Status of Women.
Title: Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons (TPN) for the Third Meeting of States Parties (3MSP)
The cabinet approved the following proposals of the National Security Council:
Approved the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons (TPN) for the Third Meeting of States Parties (3MSP). Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, the Thai delegation may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet
Authorized the Thai Ambassador and Permanent Representative of Thailand to the United Nations in New York, as Head of the Thai Delegation to the Conference of the Parties. or a representative, to adopt the document (without signing).
Gist
The Third Meeting of States Parties (3MSP) will be held on March 3-7, 2025 at the United Nations Headquarters in New York, USA. A draft declaration will be adopted without signature to demonstrate joint intent of the state parties in responding to the threats of nuclear weapons to humanity.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/94241