รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM urges all agencies to accelerate disbursement of investment budgets


วันอังคารที่ 11 มีนาคม 2568
11/03/2568
พิมพ์
PM urges all agencies to accelerate disbursement of investment budgets
PM urges all agencies to accelerate disbursement of investment budgets
March 10, 2025, at 1130hrs, at the Department of Climate Change and Environment, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra presided over the 2/2025 meeting of permanent secretaries and chiefs of ministry-level agencies and equivalent officials. Participating in the meeting were Minister of Natural Resources and Environment Chalermchai Sri-on and 42 permanent secretaries and chiefs of ministry-level agencies and equivalent officials. Deputy Government Spokesperson Anukul Prueksanusak disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
According to the Prime Minister, investment budget for FY2025, at the total amount of 1.46 trillion Baht, is expected to drive the GDP growth by 3%. The amount consists of a remaining balance of 275,009 million from the FY2024 budget, the investment budget for FY 2025 at 932,402 million, and the state enterprise investment budget for fiscal year 2025 at 253,545 million Baht. However, overall investment budget disbursement is currently at 28.12%, only half of the target. Permanent secretaries and chiefs of ministry-level agencies and equivalent officials are, therefore, urged to supervise and accelerate disbursement of investment budgets to achieve the goals and stimulate the country's GDP.
Heads of Government agencies and all ministries, especially those that are allocated with the most investment budget, i.e. Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Interior, and Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, as well as state enterprises, are instructed to include budget disbursement-related performances as KPIs for their performance evaluation.
In terms of the proactive measures against natural disasters, be it, flood, drought, haze and smoke, flash flood and landslide, all concerned agencies are asked to come up with both short, medium, and long-term plans to mitigate damages and losses. The plans must not simply be an immediate solution to the disasters which would eventually end up with a large amount of budget being used for repairs and remedies. According to the Prime Minister, implementation of preventive measures is much more cost-effective. She emphasized that budget expenditure for post-disaster repairs and remedies is not as important as the fact that people have to suffer from the damages and losses.
The Prime Minister also mentioned about the importance of systematic management of water, which includes tap water, groundwater, water for consumption, water for the industrial sector, and, in particular, water for agricultural use. She called on relevant agencies to work together in addressing the issue.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/94247