รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand ranks 1st among ASEAN countries on UN Sustainable Development Report 2022


วันจันทร์ที่ 9 มกราคม 2566
09/01/2566
พิมพ์
Thailand ranks 1st among ASEAN countries on UN Sustainable Development Report 2022
Thailand ranks 1st among ASEAN countries on UN Sustainable Development Report 2022
January 9, 2023, Deputy Government Spokesperson Tipanan Sirichana disclosed that the United Nations (UN) has released “The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2022” which provides a global overview of progress on the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. According to the report, Thailand’s overall score is 74.13 out of 100. The country ranks 44th among over 200 countries and areas across the world, and 1st among ASEAN member countries for the 4th consecutive year.
The 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are the blueprint to achieve a better and more sustainable future for all. Related thematic issues, which include not only economic dimension, but also human development, environment, peace and justice, and development partnership, among others, are relevant with Thailand’s 6 key development strategies under the 20-Year National Strategy that aims to drive the country toward security, prosperity, and sustainability without leaving anyone behind. This underscores the Prime Minister’s vision on sustainable and balanced development, while UN has also set a mandate on all its SDGs missions in Thailand to “leave no one behind”.
According to the report, the country has achieved its goal in eradicating extreme poverty as part of SDG 1, and is maintaining SDG achievement. Four other SDGs, namely, SDG 4 (Quality Education), SDG 6 (Clean Water and Sanitation), SDG 9 (Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure), and SDG 12 (Responsible consumption and production) are on track toward SDG achievement.
The Deputy Government Spokesperson added that tangible progress has been made on the development of both physical (land, rail, air, and marine) and digital (5G technology) infrastructure. Coupling with the success in the implementation of BCG Economic Model and APEC’s endorsement of the Bangkok Goals on the Bio-Circular-Green (BCG) Economy, the Government, under Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha’s leadership, is proved to be on the right track in its policy making and national administration.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/63554