รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Subordinate laws under Royal Decree on Exchange of Information for International Agreements on Taxation B.E. 2566 approved by cabinet


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 6 กรกฎาคม 2566
06/07/2566
พิมพ์
Subordinate laws under Royal Decree on Exchange of Information for International Agreements on Taxation B.E. 2566 approved by cabinet
Subordinate laws under Royal Decree on Exchange of Information
for International Agreements on Taxation B.E. 2566 approved by
cabinet
July 5, 2023, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government
Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that the cabinet approved in principle the draft
Ministerial Regulation issued under the Royal Decree on the Exchange of Information for
International Agreements on Taxation B.E. 2566 (2023), and ordered Ministry of Finance to
notify Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) to ensure that the
Multilateral Competent Authority Agreement on Automatic Exchange of Financial Account
Information (MCAA CRS) will take effect once the Royal Decree and its subordinate laws are
enforced.
Thailand has joined the Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information for Tax
Purposes. In order to affirm its commitment to implement the automatic exchange of
information according to the Common Reporting Standard (CRS), the Royal Decree on the
Exchange of Information for International Agreements on Taxation B.E. 2566 (2023) has been
enacted since March 31, 2023. Thailand also aims to put in place related subordinate laws by
September 2023 in a bid to demonstrate the country’s transparency as ruled by the CRS and in
accordance with MCAA CRS.
The Royal Decree on the Exchange of Information for International Agreements on Taxation
B.E. 2566 prescribes Thailand’s compliance and implementation of CRS, and legal
responsibilities for the financial institutions and penalties. Common Reporting Standard (CRS) is
a global standard for annual exchange of information obtained by financial institutions between
jurisdictions.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/70045