รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Military aircraft to deliver royal donations to Turkey and transport back repatriated Thai citizens


วันอังคารที่ 14 กุมภาพันธ์ 2566
14/02/2566
พิมพ์
Military aircraft to deliver royal donations to Turkey and transport back repatriated Thai citizens
Military aircraft to deliver royal donations to Turkey and transport back repatriated Thai citizens
February 14, 2023, at 13.30 hrs, at the Government House, following the weekly cabinet meeting, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha gave an interview on the disastrous earthquake in Turkey that the Thai Government has closely followed up with and offered humanitarian assistance to the Turkish Government. A team of 42 emergency search and rescue workers from the Department of Disaster Prevention and Mitigation and K-9, dispatched by Ministry of Interior, has now been in the country as part of the international rescue and relief operation. His Majesty King Rama X also made the royal support and donation which will be sent to Turkey via Ministry of Defense’s Boeing 747 flight. The aircraft will transport 23 repatriated Thai citizens and body of the Thai victim on its way back to Thailand.
The Prime Minister also clarified on the state welfare card scheme, approved by the cabinet, under which subsidy would be transferred to card holders by March 1, 2023. He emphasized that personal information of card holders would be protected under the Personal Data Protection Act. Card holders may check, but cannot disclose publicly, whether they are eligible for the subsidy.
The Prime Minister also expressed concern over the rise in financial fraud and online scam which has caused great damages. According to the data compiled by Ministry of Digital Economy and Society, over 800 fraud cases per day were recorded during the first 10 months of 2022. Legal enforcement is, therefore, necessary, and drafting of related law has been accelerated. Meanwhile, the public is urged to take precaution and immediately check with alleged agencies. Public agencies, especially those that are most referred to by scammers, such as Ministry of Finance, the Revenue Department, Customs Department, and the Excise Department, are instructed to create public awareness on possible online scams.
Additionally, the Royal Decree on Cybercrime Prevention and Suppression, B.E. … is being drafted, which will illegalize and penalize those who open a bank account, electronic card, or electronic wallet for purposes other than personal use (nominee accounts). Ministry of Digital Economy and Society and Office of National Broadcasting and Telecommunication Commission are also instructed to send text message to mobile phone users to warn them not to pick up unknown phone calls.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/64960