รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand and Malaysia to promote common peace and prosperity through connectivity, economic development, and tourism


วันจันทร์ที่ 5 สิงหาคม 2567
05/08/2567
พิมพ์
Thailand and Malaysia to promote common peace and prosperity through connectivity, economic development, and tourism
Thailand and Malaysia to promote common peace and prosperity through connectivity, economic development, and tourism
August 3, 2024, at 1125hrs, at the Sungai Kolok Border Checkpoint, Narathiwat province, Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin had a meeting with Prime Minister Dato' Sri Anwar bin Ibrahim of Malaysia during the joint field visit to Narathiwat’s Sungai Kolok district and Rantau Panjang town in Kelantan, Malaysia. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister stated that the joint field visit is aimed to promote common peace and prosperity, and to demonstrate unity, determination, and political will of both leaders to work together in keeping peace along the border area.
The Prime Minister thanked the Malaysian counterpart for his cooperation through a meeting of the working group on border trade and investment, and hoped that Thailand and Malaysia jointly organize meeting of a working group where Foreign Ministers of the two countries can have discussion under the JC and JDS frameworks. Both leaders also came to terms on the cooperation in Halal standard and products for mutual interest.
The two Prime Ministers took the opportunity to discuss dredging of the Kolok River to mitigate flood hazards. The Thai Prime Minister agreed to instruct Ministry of Foreign Affairs to liaise with Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Transport, and Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives to consider cooperation with the Malaysian counterparts on the matter.
At the end of the meeting, both Prime Ministers listened to the briefing on the construction of parallel bridge project across the Kolok River in Su-ngai Kolok District. Before the luncheon started, the Thai Prime Minister thanked the Malaysian counterpart for the warm welcome which reflects close and cordial friendship between the two countries. The Su-ngai Kolok parallel bridge is expected to better accommodate both Thai and Malaysian commuters, and facilitate mutual trade and investment. He added that he would revisit the area to observe the overall progress.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/86710