รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on January 13, 2025


วันจันทร์ที่ 27 มกราคม 2568
27/01/2568
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on January 13, 2025
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on Revocation of Public Domain Land for People’s Common Use in Nai Muang Subdistrict, Muang District, Chaiyaphum Province, B.E. ....
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Royal Decree on Revocation of Public Domain Land for People’s Common Use in Nai Muang Subdistrict, Muang District, Chaiyaphum Province, B.E. ...., which was proposed by Ministry of Interior. Opinions of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment shall also be taken into consideration.
Gist
The draft Royal Decree on Revocation of Public Domain Land for People’s Common Use in Nai Muang Subdistrict, Muang District, Chaiyaphum Province, B.E. .... prescribes revocation of parts of “Ban Khilek Yai Cemetery for Public Use” in Nai Muang Subdistrict, Muang District, Chaiyaphum Province (8 rai 34 square wah), which is discontinued utilizing. The land is to be used for the construction of the new Chaiyaphum Provincial Land Office building under the Department of Land.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for microwave ovens and combination microwave ovens for household use, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for microwave ovens and combination microwave oven for household use, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for microwave ovens and combination microwave oven for household use, B.E. …, prescribes Thai Industrial Standard for microwave ovens and combination microwave oven for household use under TIS 1773 - 2548, to be in accordance with the Ministerial Announcement No. 60335 Volume 2 (25) - B.E. 2565.
The draft Ministerial Regulation shall take effect 270 days after being announced in the Royal Gazette.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for appliances for skin or hair care, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for appliances for skin or hair care, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for appliances for skin or hair care, B.E. …, prescribes Thai Industrial Standard for appliances for skin or hair care under TIS 1985 – 2549, to be in accordance with the Ministerial Announcement No. 60335 Volume 2 (23) - B.E. 2564.
The draft Ministerial Regulation shall take effect 180 days after being announced in the Royal Gazette.
Title: Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Public Health of the Kingdom of Thailand and the National Health Commission of the People's Republic of China on Public Health Cooperation
The cabinet approved the draft Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Public Health of the Kingdom of Thailand and the National Health Commission of the People's Republic of China on Public Health Cooperation. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interests, Ministry of Public Health may exercise judgment and proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Public Health is authorized as signatory of the MoU. This is as proposed by Ministry of Public Health.
Gist
The draft Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Public Health of the Kingdom of Thailand and the National Health Commission of the People's Republic of China on Public Health Cooperation is a replacement for the former MoU of the same matter which has expired since 2007. Essence of the new MoU remains closely similar to that of the former one which sets out areas of cooperation which both parties agreed upon (e.g. communicable diseases, non-communicable diseases, etc.) through exchange of information, knowledge and experts. The draft MOU will be effective for a period of 5 years from the date of signing and will be automatically renewed for another 5 years unless either Party notifies the other Party of its intention to terminate the draft MoU.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/92776