รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand and Nepal ready to strengthen cooperation in religious and cultural tourism


วันศุกร์ที่ 19 พฤษภาคม 2566
19/05/2566
พิมพ์
Thailand and Nepal ready to strengthen cooperation in religious and cultural tourism
Thailand and Nepal ready to strengthen cooperation in religious and cultural tourism
May 18, 2023, at 0930hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Ganesh Prasad Dhakal, Ambassador of the Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his completion of tenure. Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister thanked the Nepali Ambassador for his role in reinforcing relations between Thailand and Nepal throughout the 4 years of his tenure. He also conveyed his regards to the Prime Minister and President of Nepal, and would be pleased to welcome the Nepali Prime Minister at the 6th BIMSTEC (Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation) Summit, to be held in Thailand in November 2023. The Prime Minister also affirmed Thailand’s commitment to continue to provide support to the incoming Nepali Ambassador.
The Ambassador expressed honor to have been tenured in Thailand, and thanked the Thai Government and agencies for continuous support, especially during the April 2015 Nepal earthquake. Nepal stands ready to further strengthen cooperation with Thailand in all dimensions, particularly in trade and investment, and tourism. With religious and cultural similarity, the Ambassador was confident that the two countries could promote people-to-people relations and cooperation.
Both parties also discussed other issues of mutual interest:
On religious, cultural, and tourism exchange, both sides were pleased with an increasing exchange and cooperation dynamism after the COVID-19 situation has eased. THAI Airways has also a plan to launch direct flights between the two countries at the end of 2023, through which religious and cultural tourism exchange could further be promoted. The Nepali Ambassador noted an increase of Thai tourists to Nepal, and affirmed the Nepali Government’s intent to welcome and facilitate the Thai tourists.
The Prime Minister also thanked Nepal for trade and investment cooperation, especially an exchange between private sector of the two countries, reduction of trade barriers, and promotion of investment in the fields of agriculture, tourism, construction, energy, and public utilities. The Ambassador committed to coordinate with his Government on trade and investment expansion in the areas of mutual interest. He believed that BIMSTEC could further enhance cooperation at the multilateral level.
On technical cooperation, the Prime Minister congratulated Nepal’s graduation to a developing country in 2026, and affirmed Thailand’s commitment to be the country’s development partner, especially in human resource development through training provision in such key areas as public health, women and children development, and BCG economic development.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/68354