รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Draft ASEAN documents and ASEAN joint statements with dialogue partners under various cooperation frameworks approved by cabinet


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 24 สิงหาคม 2566
24/08/2566
พิมพ์
Draft ASEAN documents and ASEAN joint statements with dialogue partners under various cooperation frameworks approved by cabinet
Draft ASEAN documents and ASEAN joint statements with dialogue partners under various cooperation frameworks approved by cabinet
August 23, 2023, Deputy Government Spokesperson Rachada Dhanadirek disclosed that the cabinet approved draft ASEAN documents and ASEAN joint statements with dialogue partners under various cooperation frameworks as follows:
1. ASEAN Joint Statement on Climate Change to UNFCCC (COP 28) The Joint Statement underscores ASEAN’s commitment on the implementation under United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the Paris Agreement on the basis of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities. The Joint Statement also prescribes implementation of activities under AWGCC (ASEAN Working Group on Climate Change) Action Plan, and Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC). Minister of Natural Resources and Environment or a representative is authorized to endorse the Joint Statement at the 17th ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on the Environment (17th AMME) to be held during August 22-24, 2023 in Lao PDR, and the Prime Minister or a representative is authorized to adopt the Joint Statement at the 43rd ASEAN Summit, to be held on September 5-7, 2023 in Indonesia.
2. ASEAN -Japan New Environment Initiative "Strategic Program for ASEAN Climate and Environment (SPACE) and ASEAN-U.S. Environment and Climate Work PlanThe ASEAN -Japan New Environment Initiative "Strategic Program for ASEAN Climate and Environment (SPACE) focuses on addressing 3 global environmental crises, namely, climate change, pollution, and biodiversity loss. The ASEAN-U.S. Environment and Climate Work Plan is aimed to promote cooperation and capacity building of ASEAN member states on climate actions.
The 2 documents will be adopted at the 17th ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on the Environment (17th AMME) and related meetings, to be held during August 22-24, 2023 in Lao PDR.
3. ASEAN Action Plan for Invasive Alien Species ManagementThe ASEAN Action Plan for Invasive Alien Species Management will serve as guideline for strategic collaboration in invasive alien species management and mitigation in the ASEAN region. The document will be adopted at the 17th ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on the Environment (17th AMME) and related meetings, to be held during August 22-24, 2023 in Lao PDR, before being proposed for acknowledgement at the 43rd ASEAN Summit
4. Plan of Action for the Promotion of Inclusive Business in ASEAN (2023-2027)The Plan of Action for the Promotion of Inclusive Business in ASEAN (2023-2027) prescribes promotion of public participation, and prioritization of business development for the grassroots economy and SMEs at both the national and regional levels. The document has been endorsed by ASEAN Coordinating Committee on Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprise (ACCMSME), and will be adopted without signing at the ASEAN Economic Ministers Meeting (AEM), to be held on August 17-22, 2023 in Indonesia, the 6th Business Forum for the Grassroots Economy, and the High-Level Ministerial Meeting during August 23-25, 2023 in Bali, Indonesia.
5. Joint Statement of the 10th ASEAN Finance Ministers’ and Central Bank Governors’ Meeting (AFMGM) and Joint Statement of the 1st ASEAN Finance and Health Ministers’ Meeting (AFHMM)The Joint Statement of the 10th ASEAN Finance Ministers’ and Central Bank Governors’ Meeting (AFMGM) prescribes promotion of socio-economic and cultural cooperation and assistance to increase competitiveness and maintain ASEAN's centrality, as well as to promote sustainable financial stability in the region.
The Joint Statement of the 1st ASEAN Finance and Health Ministers’ Meeting (AFHMM) prescribes collaboration between financial and public health agencies to enhance regional public health capacity, and ensure preparedness for post-COVID-19 epidemics, be it, re-emerging infectious diseases and emerging infectious diseases.
The two documents will be adopted without signing at the 10th AFMGM and the 1st AFHMM to be held on August 24-25, 2023 in Jakarta, Indonesia.
6. Joint Statement of the Thirtieth ASEAN Socio-Cultural Community (ASCC) CouncilThe Joint Statement of the Thirtieth ASEAN Socio-Cultural Community (ASCC) Council commends Indonesia as ASEAN chair under the overarching theme: “ASEAN Matters: Epicentrum of Growth” which focuses on 3 main areas, namely, 1) ASEAN Matters; 2) Epicentrum of Growth; and 3) ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific, and acknowledges implementation progress of ASEAN Socio-Cultural Community Blueprint 2025.
The cabinet authorized Minister of Social Development and Human Security or a representative, as head of the Thai delegation to the 30th ASEAN Socio - Cultural Community (ASCC) Council Meeting, to adopt the Joint Statement on August 29, 2023 in Indonesia.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/71643