รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand – Vietnam to promote mutual trade facilitation and reduce trade barriers to achieve target of 25 billion US dollars in trade value


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 10 ตุลาคม 2567
Thailand – Vietnam to promote mutual trade facilitation and reduce trade barriers to achieve target of 25 billion US dollars in trade value
Thailand – Vietnam to promote mutual trade facilitation and reduce trade barriers to achieve target of 25 billion US dollars in trade value
October 9, 2024, at 19.00 hrs, at the National Convention Centre (NCC), Vientiane, Lao PDR, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra had a pull-aside meeting with H.E. Mr. Pham Minh Chinh, Prime Minister of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam during the 44th and 45th ASEAN summits. Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsab disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister emphasized that Vietnam is Thailand’s important strategic partner, and expressed condolences to Vietnam which has been badly affected by Typhoon “Yagi”. Thailand has donated 2 million Baht to support the Vietnamese government in helping the victims.
The two leaders came to terms on promoting mutual trade facilitation and reducing trade barriers to achieve the target of 25 billion US dollars in trade value (approximately 850 billion Baht.) The Prime Minister called on Vietnam’s support for Thai investments in the country, especially investments in petrochemicals, energy, and commercial banking. The two leaders agreed to push forward cooperation under the “Three Connects” strategy, that is, cooperation in supply chains, local economy, and sustainable development. They also endorsed an increase of flights, especially direct flights between various provinces in Thailand and Vietnamese cities. In terms of tourism, Thailand has been the most popular tourist destination among the Vietnamese, whereas the latter is 6th most popular destination among the Thai tourists.
Vietnam also endorses Thailand’s “Six Countries, One Destination” scheme to promote regional tourism.
Both leaders came to terms on the more regular exchange of high-level visits between the two countries. Thailand also accepted an invitation to pay an official visit to Vietnam and cochair the 4th Joint Cabinet Retreat to discuss elevation of relations to Comprehensive Strategic Partnership. The Prime Minister also extended an invitation for an official visit of Vietnamese leader to Thailand in the next occasion.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/89008