รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM to pay official visit to Vietnam and co-chair 4th Thailand–Viet Nam Joint Cabinet Retreat 


วันพุธที่ 14 พฤษภาคม 2568
14/05/2568
พิมพ์
PM to pay official visit to Vietnam and co-chair 4th Thailand–Viet Nam Joint Cabinet Retreat
PM to pay official visit to Vietnam and co-chair 4th Thailand–Viet Nam Joint Cabinet Retreat
May 14, 2025, Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed about an official visit to the Socialist Republic of Vietnam of Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra during May 15-16, 2025, which is her first official visit to the country as Prime Minister. She is scheduled to co-chair the 4th Thailand–Vietnam Joint Cabinet Retreat (JCR) with Vietnamese Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh. The Prime Minister’s schedule is as follows:
On May 15, 2025, after arriving in Hanoi, the Prime Minister is scheduled to meet with representatives of the Thai Chamber of Commerce and Industry in Vietnam (ThaiCham) and Vietnamese private sector, i.e, SOVICO Group (Vietjet Airline), and FPT, before paying courtesy calls on Vietnamese leaders.
In the morning of May 16, 2025, the Prime Minister will lay wreaths at the Ho Chi Minh Mausoleum and Bac Son Monument before attending the official welcoming ceremony, followed by a bilateral discussion with Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh and the 4th Thailand–Viet Nam Joint Cabinet Retreat (JCR).
In the afternoon the Prime Minister will co-preside the Thailand–Vietnam Business Forum with the Prime Minister of Vietnam, and will pay a courtesy call on Vietnamese leaders before departing for Bangkok in the evening.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the 4th Thailand–Viet Nam Joint Cabinet Retreat (JCR), which she will co-chair with Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh. The JCR will serve as a platform for both sides to take stock of progress in bilateral cooperation and chart a comprehensive course of future collaboration. Key areas of discussion will include security, trade and investment, tourism, connectivity, sustainable development, and people-to-people relations.
The first JCR was inaugurated during former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra’s premiership. This JCR to be co-chaired by the Prime Minister will be the first in 20 years.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/96359