รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with Co-founder and Chairman of BGI Group


วันอังคารที่ 27 ธันวาคม 2565
27/12/2565
พิมพ์
PM meets with Co-founder and Chairman of BGI Group
PM meets with Co-founder and Chairman of BGI Group
December 27, 2022, at 0830hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Mr. Wang Jian, Co-founder and Chairman of BGI Group, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha. Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure to meet with BGI Co-founder and Chairman, and thanked the company for supporting the Thai Government in its battle against the COVID-19 pandemic through donating Huo-Yan Air Laboratory, a complete, high-throughput nucleic acid testing platform developed by BGI Genomics. He was also pleased with the meeting between Mr. Wang Jian and representatives of Ministry of Public Health and the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC) to discuss medical and medical genomics cooperation in a tangible manner. Thailand stands ready to become the region’s medical genomics hub as the country is internationally recognized for its quality medical personnel and advanced medical development. At the policy level, Thailand has mapped out genomics development plan, in collaboration with 22 partner agencies. The Prime Minister hoped that the Thai Government and BGI could further tightened cooperation in this area.
BGI Co-founder and Chairman expressed appreciation toward the Prime Minister for the meeting. BGI has forged cooperation with Thailand for 25 years, and his visit to the country this time is to explore further investment opportunity and tighten cooperation with the Thai Government. Both parties also discussed exchange of knowledge and expertise and personnel training, as well as advanced technology transfer, for national development.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/63147