รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM discloses cabinet’s resolutions made on Aug 6


วันพุธที่ 7 สิงหาคม 2567
07/08/2567
พิมพ์
​PM discloses cabinet’s resolutions made on Aug 6
​PM discloses cabinet’s resolutions made on Aug 6
August 6, 2024, at 1200hrs, at the Command Building I, Government House, Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin disclosed about the cabinet’s resolutions as follows
The cabinet approved of Ministry of Finance’s proposal to write off bad debts of Koh Lanta Fisheries Cooperative Limited under the “debt relief program through the write-off of bad debts for Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives’ funds” for the total amount of 5.93 million Baht. The reason behind this approval is that in early 1996 severe shrimp disease outbroke and badly affected Koh Lanta Fisheries Cooperative Limited’s shrimp farming, as a result of which it was unable to pay off debts and subsequently ceased its operation.
The cabinet also approved in principle the Prime Minister’s field visit to Kalasin and Ratchaburi provinces to follow up on 7 projects, worth 170.92 million Baht, that aim to address people’s plights, such as infrastructure development project to promote safety in tourism, water resource development to increase irrigation areas, among others.
The cabinet acknowledged Ministry of Tourism and Sports’ quick-wins to boost the entire economic system during the low season, using the central budget of 433.199 million Baht. This includes Thai tourism on online platforms, and tourism marketing in provincial clusters through the organization of “Thai Charm” events. Tourism Authority of Thailand is instructed to work together with the Ministry to immediately implement economic stimulus measures through tourism in major cities and tourist destinations before the starting of the high season in November.
The Prime Minister also disclosed that the cabinet approved the proposal of Ministry of Justice to give special rewards for FY2024 to 13,047 drug enforcement officers nationwide, for the total amount of 85.7 million Baht, in a bid to boost their morale and incentivize commitment to perform duty in accordance with the Government’s national agenda on eradication of illicit drugs.
The cabinet also approved the draft ministerial regulation specifying characteristics or provision of facilities, equipment, or services at airports and transport services to ensure accessibility and usability for people with disabilities, e.g., audio and signal enhancement of station name announcement, improvement of equipment and services to accommodate people with disabilities, etc. Ministry of Transport is instructed to set a timeline for project implementation across all modes of travel (waterways, roads, and railways).
The cabinet also acknowledged Ministry of Public Health’s 10-year strategy on human resource and public health service reform which is aimed to accelerate production and development of workforces in public health (esp., nurses, nurse assistants), and to increase compensation rates for government officials in public healthcare.
The 5/2024 cabinet retreat in Phra Nakhon Si Ayutthaya province during August 19-20 was also acknowledged by the cabinet. Cabinet members will take this opportunity to follow up on various works and implementations in the upper central provincial cluster (Chainat, Ayutthaya, Sing Buri, Sara Buri, and Ang Thong.)

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/86828