รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on January 23, 2023. 


วันอังคารที่ 30 มกราคม 2567
30/01/2567
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on January 23, 2023.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Meeting outcome of Joint Public-Private Meeting for Development of Southern Provinces Along Andaman Coast (Ranong, Phuket, Krabi, Trang, Phang-nga, and Satun)
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Office of National Economic and Social Development Council:
1. Acknowledged the meeting outcome of Joint Public-Private Meeting for Development of Southern Provinces Along Andaman Coast (Ranong, Phuket, Krabi, Trang, Phang-nga, and Satun), held on January 22, 2024
2. Approved in principle 13 provincial and provincial clusters projects with the budget framework of 350 million Baht
3. Approved in principle 5 projects proposed by the private sector with the budget framework of 202,000,000 Baht
4. Assigned Office of National Economic and Social Development Council to liaise with concerned agencies on consideration of other 44 projects proposed by the private sector
5. Approved review of the cabinet resolution, dated December 4, 2023 on meeting outcome of Joint Public-Private Meeting for Development of Northeastern provincial cluster I (Nong Bua Lamphu, Udon Thani, Loei, Nong Khai, and Beungkan) with regard to the allocation from the FY2023 budget
6. Assigned concerned agencies to implement accordingly and later report to Office of National Economic and Social Development Council
Gist
Approved provincial and provincial clusters projects, with the budget framework of 350 million Baht, are those that are ready to be implemented and completed within one year, for example, collaborative project between commercial entrepreneurs and creative Andaman tourism economy; Community Marina Project; project on improvement and rehabilitation of landfill area in Phuket; Phang Nga Smart Pier project, among others.
Title: Meeting of Ad Hoc Committee to Elaborate a Comprehensive International Convention on Countering the Use of ICT for Criminal Purposes
The cabinet approved the following proposal of Ministry of Foreign Affairs:
1. Approved negotiation framework for the draft Comprehensive International Convention on Countering the Use of ICT for Criminal Purposes
2. Approved for the Thai delegation to join the negotiation based on the approved negotiation framework for the draft Comprehensive International Convention on Countering the Use of ICT for Criminal Purposes. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, the Thai delegation may exercise judgment and proceed with the negotiation without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Negotiation for the draft. Comprehensive International Convention on Countering the Use of ICT for Criminal Purposes will be held during January 29- February 9, 2024 in New York, USA.
Title: The 27th Meeting of the ASEAN Tourism Ministers (M-ATM) and related meetings
The cabinet approved the proposal of Ministry of Tourism and Sports as follows:
1. Approved 6 draft meeting outcomes of the 27th Meeting of the ASEAN Tourism Ministers (M-ATM) and related meetings, namely, 1) Draft Joint Statement for the 27th Meeting of the ASEAN Tourism Ministers; 2) Draft joint statement for the 23rd ASEAN Plus 3 Tourism Ministers Meeting; 3) Draft Joint Statement for the 11th ASEAN – India Tourism Ministers Meeting; 4) Draft Joint Statement for the 3rd ASEAN – Russian Federation Tourism Ministers Meeting; 5) MOU between ASEAN and The United Nations World Tourism Organization (UNWTO); and 6) Draft Action Plan on ASEAN’s Sustainable Tourism Development.
2. Approved for Minister of Tourism and Sports or a representative to adopt the documents in 1.
3. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Tourism and Sports may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet
The 27th Meeting of the ASEAN Tourism Ministers (M-ATM) and related meetings will be held in Vientiane, Lao PDR during January 25-26, 2024.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/78163