รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand ready to host 2026 Annual Meetings of the World Bank Group and the International Monetary Fund (IMF)


วันอังคารที่ 4 กุมภาพันธ์ 2568
04/02/2568
พิมพ์
Thailand ready to host 2026 Annual Meetings of the World Bank Group and the International Monetary Fund (IMF)
Thailand ready to host 2026 Annual Meetings of the World Bank Group and the International Monetary Fund (IMF)
February 3, 2025, at 1000hrs, at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra chaired the 1/2025 meeting of the national committee meeting on preparation for the 2026 Annual Meetings of the World Bank Group and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Participating in the meeting were Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Pichai Chunhavajira, Deputy Ministers of Finance Julapun Amornvivat and Paopoom Rojanasakul, and Prime Minister’s Secretary General Prommin Lertsuridej. Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
According to the Prime Minister, Thailand’s hosting of the 2026 Annual Meetings of the World Bank Group and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in October 2026 is a national agenda, as over 18,000 representatives from nearly 200 nations, including key economic and financial leaders, i.e., finance ministers, central bank governors, representatives of financial institutions, and executives and staffs of the World Bank and IMF, are expected to attend the meeting.
To successfully organize the event, integrative engagement and effort from multiple sectors will be required. Thailand has hosted World Bank and IMF annual meeting before in 1991, and this time would be a good opportunity to showcase the country's wide-ranging development and progresses, especially economic and financial advancement, as the country strives to establish itself as the region’s AI and digital-driven financial hub. It is also an excellent opportunity to demonstrate Thailand’s potential in tourism and service industry, as well as soft power, and its role as world’s leading tourism destination.
To ensure preparedness for the meeting, four groups of subcommittees and working group will be set up. They are: 1) the Subcommittee for thematic and strategic implementations, chaired by Minister of Finance; 2) Subcommittee on protocol and administration, chaired by Minister of Finance; 3) Subcommittee on security, traffic, and public Health, chaired by Commissioner-General of the Royal Thai Police; and 4) Advisory Working Group, chaired by the Permanent Secretary of Ministry of Finance.
The Prime Minister emphasized that Thailand hosting of the 2026 Annual Meetings of the World Bank Group and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) will also underscore the country’s potential and readiness to host world’s events. She suggested additional side meetings be held to further enhance the country's image and generate more revenue to the country.
The 2026 Annual Meetings of the World Bank Group and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) is scheduled on October 12 – 18, 2026 and will be the largest annual meeting of its kind, with the participation of finance ministers from World Bank member states, and central bank governors from IMF member countries. The total number of participants is estimated at around 18,000, with the main meetings taking place at the venue and approximately 1,000 side meetings between member countries and relevant agencies.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/93034