รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM to pay official visit to Sri Lanka as Guest of Honour on 3 - 4 February 2024


วันจันทร์ที่ 29 มกราคม 2567
29/01/2567
พิมพ์
PM to pay official visit to Sri Lanka as Guest of Honour on 3 - 4 February 2024
PM to pay official visit to Sri Lanka as Guest of Honour on 3 - 4 February 2024
January 29, 2024, Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed that Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin is scheduled to pay an official visit to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on 3 - 4 February 2024 upon an invitation of President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, H.E. Mr. Ranil Wickremesinghe. On this visit the Prime Minister will attend the 76th Independence Day Celebration of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as Guest of Honour, and witness the signing of the Thailand - Sri Lanka Free Trade Agreement (FTA).
During the visit, the Prime Minister will also have a bilateral meeting with the President of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and witness the signing of the Thailand - Sri Lanka Free Trade Agreement (FTA). The Prime Minister will attend the 76th Independence Day Celebration of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as Guest of Honour.
The Prime Minister will also have discussions with high-level officials from the Sri Lankan government and one-on-one meetings with senior executives of Sri Lankan private sector. Moreover, the Prime Minister will deliver remarks at the event “Exploring Market Opportunities to Trade and Investment in Sri Lanka”, jointly organised by the Ministry of Commerce of Thailand and the Ministry of Trade of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, as well as the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, to further promote trade and investment opportunities between the two countries.
According to the Government Spokesperson, Thailand and Sri Lanka have enjoyed long and cordial relations based on the common faith of Buddhism. This official visit of the Prime Minister will be a good opportunity for reinforcing closer relations and cooperation between the two countries especially in economic cooperation. The Thailand - Sri Lanka FTA is Thailand’s 15th FTA and this would be the first FTA signed under the current Thai administration.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/78070