รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with Prince Mahidol Award 2023 laureates


วันจันทร์ที่ 29 มกราคม 2567
29/01/2567
พิมพ์
PM meets with Prince Mahidol Award 2023 laureates
PM meets with Prince Mahidol Award 2023 laureates
January 26, 2024, at 1400hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Prof. Dr. Apichat Asavamongkolkul, Dean of Faculty of Medicine, Siriraj Hospital, Mahidol University, led 2 Prince Mahidol Award 2023 laureates to pay a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin. Participating in the meeting were H.E. Mr. Robert F. Godec, Ambassador of the United States to Thailand, and H.E. Mr. Paolo Dionisi, Ambassador of the Republic of Italy to Thailand.
The 2 Prince Mahidol Awards Laureates for 2023 are Prof. Napoleone Ferrara, M.D. (USA / Italy), the PMA Laureate in the Field of Medicine; and Prof. Dr. Barry H. Rumack, M.D. (USA), the PMA Laureate in the Field of Public Health. Prof. Napoleone Ferrara is renowned for the discovery of the Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) and the development of the drug “Bevacizumab” for treating cancer and eye diseases. Prof. Dr. Barry H. Rumack is recognized for inventing tools to assess risk and diagnose patients with acute acetaminophen poisoning, and plays a crucial role in developing the Poisindex digital toxicology clinical information resource.
The Prime Minister praised the Prince Mahidol Award 2023 laureates for their dedication and commitment which have successfully led to major contributions to the world of medical sciences and public health. He expressed hope that the two laureates work together with Thailand’s medical and healthcare personnel in advancing the country medical innovation and creating awareness on cancer treatment and acute acetaminophen poisoning diagnosis.
The 2 Prince Mahidol Awards Laureates for 2023 thanked the Prime Minister for the warm welcome, and commended capacity and expertise of Thai medical and healthcare personnel. They stand ready to collaborate with the Thai Government to share medicinal and public health knowledge and innovation in the areas of their expertise.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/78091