รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on September 24, 2024


วันจันทร์ที่ 30 กันยายน 2567
30/09/2567
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on September 24, 2024
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Request for allocation of Government’s central fund for contingency and emergency (FY2024) for remunerations of medical and public health personnel (whose duties are to monitor, trace, prevent, control and treat patients with COVID - 19)
The cabinet approved the allocation of Government’s central fund for contingency and emergency (FY2024), at the amount of 3,849.30 million Baht, for outstanding payment of remunerations to be made to medical and public health personnel (whose duties are to monitor, trace, prevent, control and treat patients with COVID – 19 during the period of October 2021 – September 2022). This is as proposed by Ministry of Public Health.
Title: Cabinet representation in Ad Hoc Committee on Senate Affairs
The cabinet approved Minister Attached to the Prime Minister’s Office Chusak Sirinil as cabinet representative in the Ad Hoc Committee on Senate Affairs.
Cabinet representation in Ad Hoc Committee on Senate Affairs is in accordance with the Senate Meeting Regulations, B.E. 2562. Represented minister shall perform liaison duty between the Senate and the House of Representatives, the cabinet, independent organizations, Office of the Attorney General, and other agencies with regard to the Senate’s affairs.
Title: Request for allocation of Government’s central fund for contingency and emergency (FY2024) for prisoner supervision expenses
The cabinet approved the allocation of Government’s central fund for contingency and emergency (FY2024), at the amount of 999,503,900 Baht, for prisoner supervision expenses. This is as proposed by Ministry of Justice.
Gist
The allocation of 999,503,900 Baht is for the Department of Corrections to spend on prisoner supervision for FY2024. The Department is to submit an action plan and expenditure plan to the Budget Bureau.
Title: Protocol to Amend and Extend the ASEAN Memorandum of Understanding on the Trans - ASEAN Gas Pipeline Project
The cabinet approved the draft Protocol to Amend and Extend the ASEAN Memorandum of Understanding on the Trans - ASEAN Gas Pipeline Project. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest and the principle approved by the cabinet, Ministry of Energy may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Energy or a representative is authorized as signatory of the Protocol. Ministry of Foreign Affairs is to issue the Full Powers to Minister of Energy or a representative. This is as proposed by Ministry of Energy.
Gist
The draft Protocol to Amend and Extend the ASEAN Memorandum of Understanding on the Trans - ASEAN Gas Pipeline Project is proposed to extend the ASEAN Memorandum of Understanding on the Trans - ASEAN Gas Pipeline Project which has expired on May 20, 2024. However, due to the change of energy situation in various ways, there is a need to amend the Protocol in be line with the current situation and context, e.g., revision of the definition of natural gas to include liquefied natural gas (LNG), and to promote the nation’s energy security, as well as to enhance Thailand’s competitiveness in LNG market.
Title: Appointment of Thai trade representatives
The cabinet approved the proposal of Office of Prime Minister’s Secretary General to appoint the following individuals as Thai trade representatives:
Mrs. Nalinee Thavisin
Mr. Chai Wacharonke
This is from September 16, 2024 onward.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/88546