รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with Google president which also announced the company’s investment of 1 billion USD in Thailand


วันจันทร์ที่ 30 กันยายน 2567
30/09/2567
พิมพ์
PM meets with Google president which also announced the company’s investment of 1 billion USD in Thailand
PM meets with Google president which also announced the company’s investment of 1 billion USD in Thailand
September 30, 2024, at 1700hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Mrs. Ruth Porat, President and Chief Investment Officer of Alphabet and Google, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra on occasion of her visit to Thailand to discuss progress of the company’s investments in the country, including collaboration between the company and the Thai Government on digital economic and social development under the concept “Leaving No Thai Behind”. Gist of the meeting is as follows:
The Prime Minister, on behalf of the Thai government, thanked Google for placing trust in Thailand’s potential to support Google’s business, and expressed confidence that the meeting today would further solidify the Government’s collaboration with the company. She was pleased with Google’s support to the Cloud First Policy, which focuses on effective data management to streamline processes and establish effective e-government services with providing safer and more inclusive services to the Thai citizens. The Government has made significant progress in advancing the Cloud First Policy.Thailand is also actively fostering a favorable AI environment. The Prime Minister reaffirmed that the Government would do utmost to create a favorable and conducive environment for Google’s continued investment and success.  Therefore the PM also mentioned that she talked to the Former PM Mr. Srettha Thavisin on this cooperation continuously.
Mrs. Ruth Porat expressed pleasure to meet with the Prime Minister, and stated that this was a good occasion to discuss progress of collaboration between the company and the Thai Government. It was also timely for the company to officially announce its investment project in Thailand.
Later at 1745hrs, at Santi Maitri Building, Government House, the Prime Miniter hosted dinner reception for Mrs. Ruth Porat and her team. There, she delivered a statement to congratulate the company for its official announcement of the investment project in Thailand. Gist of the statement is as follows:
The Prime Minister was pleased to welcome Ms. Ruth Porat and her team from Google, a well-known company among Thais, and whose products are widely used in everyday life, such as Google Search, Google Maps, Gmail, YouTube, and Google Cloud. The Thai Government has also forged strong partnership with the company. In November 2023, former Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin pushed for the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between Google and the Ministry of Digital Economy and Society to enhance Thailand’s digital competitiveness and accelerate the digital transformation process, focusing on Cloud system. The Prime Minister is committed to continuing and advancing this partnership.
According to the Prime Minister, strengthening digital economy is one of the key priorities for driving Thailand’s transformation. The Government aims to empower every Thai citizen with the digital literacy needed to boost self-improvement, productivity, and innovation—thereby reducing inequalities and providing greater opportunities for all. The Prime Minister also emphasized that Thailand not only offers resilient digital infrastructure and stable utilities, but also upholds technological neutrality. The country’s continuous growth in digital demand is well supported by an extensive 5G network and a digitally active population.
Thailand will continue to expand clean energy initiatives and refining the regulatory landscape to foster a thriving digital ecosystem. The Thai Government is actively working on establishing clean energy mechanisms, such as the Direct Power Purchase Agreement (Direct PPA) and expanding new sources which will provide investors with access to clean energy. A conducive digital regulatory environment is also crucial for promoting the digital economy. One key initiative is Cloud First Policy, which will enhance government digital services, data governance, and cybersecurity by adopting flexible regulatory approaches suitable for the digital era.
The Prime Minister was pleased to acknowledge that Google and the Board of Investment (BOI) have been working closely together to explore the establishment of the first Data Center in Thailand. This collaboration reflects Google’s confidence in Thailand and highlights the readiness of the country’s robust digital infrastructure and skilled workforce. The Prime Minister took this occasion to encourage Google to continue exploring collaboration opportunities with educational institutions in Thailand, enhancing future workforce’s digital skills and preparing them for the rapidly evolving digital industries.
In closing, the Prime Minister reaffirmed to Google that the Government is dedicated to ensuring that Thailand becomes a thriving hub for Google, fostering growth for Thai people and businesses both domestically and within the ASEAN region.
In this regards, Mrs. Ruth Porat expressed sincere appreciation toward the Prime Minister, and announced the company’s investment of 1 billion USD to build Data Center and Cloud Region in Thailand, which is expected to support an average of 14,000 jobs between 2025 and 2029 and expected to add approximately 4 billion USD to Thailand's GDP by 2029.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/88583