รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM to attend 3rd ACD Summit in Qatar during Oct 2-3


วันอาทิตย์ที่ 29 กันยายน 2567
29/09/2567
พิมพ์
PM to attend 3rd ACD Summit in Qatar during Oct 2-3
PM to attend 3rd ACD Summit in Qatar during Oct 2-3
September 29, 2024, at 1000hrs, Prime Minister’s advisor Jirayu Huangsap disclosed that Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra and the delegation is scheduled to attend the 3rd Asia Cooperation Dialogue (ACD) Summit in Doha, Qatar during October 2-3, 2024, as invited by Shiekh Tamim Bin Hamad Al-Thani, the Emir of Qatar. At the summit on October 3, the Prime Minister will deliver a statement to share her visions with other member states.
Topics that she will touch upon include economic and social issues, resource development related to member states, sports diplomacy, responses to global and regional challenges, and cooperation in wide-ranging dimensions. The Prime Minister will also affirm Thailand’s readiness to drive forward cooperation under the ACD framework to achieve tangible results, especially when the country will take over ACD’s 2025 chairmanship on January 1, 2025. She will join ACD leaders in adopting the Doha Declaration to affirm political intent of ACD leaders in advancing cooperation in sports diplomacy and promoting ACD as Asia’s platform for international policy discussion.
The Prime Minister’s attendance at the ACD Summit has much attracted global press and media’s interest as this is the first overseas activity following her assumption of the premiership. This will also be a good opportunity to promote cooperation and strengthen bilateral relations with ACD member states in all other aspects, as well as expand trade and investment opportunity and G-to-G cooperation.
The Prime Minister’s attendance at the ACD Summit is expected to boost international confidence on Thailand’s political and economic stability, and will underscore the country’s leadership as co-founder of ACD, the first intergovernmental organization that covers the whole of Asia with 35 Asian member states.
The ACD Summit has been suspended for 8 years due to the pandemic. The 3rd Summit and related meetings will be hosted by Qatar, and chaired by Islamic Republic of Iran. The Prime Minister’s delegation at the 3rd ACD Summit includes Minister of Commerce Pichai Naripthaphan and other economic ministers.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/88544