รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Remarks by H.E. Ms. Paetongtarn Shinawatra, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand at the official announcement on Google’s investment in Thailand


วันจันทร์ที่ 30 กันยายน 2567
30/09/2567
พิมพ์
Remarks by H.E. Ms. Paetongtarn Shinawatra, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand at the official announcement on Google’s investment in Thailand
on 30 September 2024, Government House, Bangkok
On behalf of the Thai Government, it is my pleasure to host this event and extend a warm welcome to Mrs. Ruth Porat and the Google team to the Government House.
Google is a well-known company among Thai people, who frequently use products such as Google Search, Google Maps, Gmail, YouTube, and Google Cloud. These services and tools have become an integral part of daily life for many Thais.
Last November, a strong foundation was established by Former Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin when Google entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with the Ministry of Digital Economy and Society, aimed at strengthening Thailand’s digital competitiveness and accelerating our cloud-first digital transformation.
Clearly, we are gathered here today because his hard work has paid off. And it is my intention to carry this work forward.
Strengthening the digital economy is one of the key priorities for driving Thailand’s transformation.
My government aims to empower every Thai citizen with the digital literacy needed to boost self-improvement, productivity, and innovation—thereby reducing inequalities and providing greater opportunities for all.
Thailand not only offers resilient digital infrastructure and stable utilities, but also upholds technological neutrality.
Our continuous growth in digital demand is well supported by an extensive 5G network and a digitally active population.
We will continue to expand clean energy initiatives and refining the regulatory landscape to foster a thriving digital ecosystem.
We are actively working on establishing clean energy mechanisms, such as the Direct Power Purchase Agreement (Direct PPA) and expanding new sources which will provide investors with access to clean energy.
A conducive digital regulatory environment is also crucial for promoting the digital economy.
One key initiative is our Cloud First Policy, which will enhance government digital services, data governance, and cybersecurity by adopting flexible regulatory approaches suitable for the digital era.
Many more laws and regulations are being improved with the aim of aligning with international standards, boosting business confidence, and ultimately creating a supportive environment for digital innovation.
We are pleased to acknowledge that Google and the Board of Investment have been working closely together to explore the establishment of the first Data Center in Thailand.
This collaboration reflects Google’s confidence in Thailand and highlights the readiness of our robust digital infrastructure and skilled workforce.
In this context, I would like to take this opportunity to encourage Google to continue exploring collaboration opportunities with educational institutions in Thailand, enhancing our future workforce’s digital skills and preparing them for the rapidly evolving digital industries.
In closing, I would like to reaffirm to Google that we are dedicated to ensuring that Thailand becomes a thriving hub for Google, fostering growth for Thai people and businesses both domestically and within the ASEAN region.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/88582