รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM instructs Team Thailand to expedite promoting investments and Thai soft powers


วันอังคารที่ 12 พฤศจิกายน 2567
12/11/2567
พิมพ์
PM instructs Team Thailand to expedite promoting investments and Thai soft powers
PM instructs Team Thailand to expedite promoting investments and Thai soft powers
November 11, 2024, at 1000hrs (Los Angeles local time), Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed that Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra had a meeting with Thai ambassadors and consul-generals, as well as heads of the Team Thailand tenured in the American continents, i.e., the U.S., Canada, Argentina, Mexico, Brazil, and Chile, to hand down the Government’s policies and guidelines for promotion of relations and cooperation between Thailand and countries in North, Central and South America, in line with the Government’s policy targets which emphasize people’s centeredness and protection of Thai people’s interest.
The Prime Minister affirmed the Government’s policy on “people centeredness”, and thanked heads of the Thai embassy and consulates for working to protect the interest of Thailand and overseas Thais. The Government, through its domestic and overseas agencies, has been prepared to support both the Thai people living abroad and foreign business operators who would like to invest in the country. Team Thailand in each country, which comprises representatives of various sectors, including the ambassador, commercial attaches, and representatives of the Board of Investment (BOI), is like “Thailand’s frontline”. They are urged to expedite implementation of Government policies. Since Thailand is still facing economic problems, it is necessary to look for new opportunities and cooperation that would strengthen the economy, benefit and drive the country forward, especially new investments and new networks of the “Friends of Thailand”.
The Prime Minister, as head of Team Thailand, is tasked to enhance the country’s competitiveness. Thailand boasts a large number of talents, but some of them work overseas. It is, therefore, the Government’s intent to empower national economy in a bid to attract the Thai talents to return home and help advancing the country further.
With regard to the Government’s soft power policy, the Thai Ambassador to Chile reported on the popularity of Thai films among the Chileans. On this, the Prime Minister emphasized the Government’s support on the exchange of knowledge, and trainings of Thai personnel by international experts, not only in film production, but also other areas of soft powers. The Prime Minister has launched “Thailand Winter Festivals”, which will be running from November through December 2024, and will highlight Thailand’s distinctive cultural and creative assets, aiming to solidify the country as a top global event destination. She called on the ambassadors to help publicize the event and promote Thailand’s readiness to welcome foreign tourists. Upon her departure from Bangkok to Los Angeles, the Prime Minister had an opportunity to inspect Suvarnabhumi Airport facilities. With its modern and fast immigration system, the Airport is ready to welcome and facilitate tourists’ travel to Thailand.
The Prime Minister also underscored the need to promote Thai startups. The Government has set up the “Matching Fund” to support startups and ensure broadening of markets for the Thai private sector. She also mentioned the Government’s policy to support Thai students to study abroad. Scholarships will be provided to the students who intend to further their study in the fields related to modern industries, e.g., aerospace, and digital technology, among others. The Prime Minister also called on the Team Thailand in the U.S. to take good care of over 300,000 Thai people in the country and protect their interest.
Minister of Foreign Affairs Maris Sangiampongsa also mentioned the special trait of Thailand, that is, to be able to befriend all countries. In the 21st century, foreign policy must focus on tangible and people-centered diplomacy, using proactive strategies to bring Thailand back on the radar, not as a leader but as a regional leader with a clear stance on each issue. He called on the Team Thailand in 99 locations across the world to work in an integrative manner. Although each region has its own prioritized issues and agendas, the goals are all the same, that is, to protect the interests of Thailand and its people, and to reinforce bilateral relations.
The meeting was also the opportunity for Thai ambassadors, tenured in the American continents, to report to the Prime Minister on various issues. Ambassador of Thailand to the United States Suriya Chindawongse reported on the overview of U.S. politics and economic opportunity, and added that Thai investors are encouraged to invest more in the U.S. Ambassador of Thailand to Canada Kallayana Vipattipumiprates reported on daily direct flights between Thailand and Vancouver during the winter season which are positively responded by Canadian tourists to travel to Thailand. Ambassador of Thailand to Chile Vimolbajra Ruksakiati mentioned about the opportunity of Thai soft powers, especially Thai films and food, which are becoming more popular in the South American continent. Overall, people in North, Central and South America have become increasingly interested in Thailand in many dimensions.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/90149