รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Loy Krathong Festival 2023 attracts foreign tourists, making Bangkok the most searched destination in Thailand on Airbnb.


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 30 พฤศจิกายน 2566
30/11/2566
พิมพ์
Loy Krathong Festival 2023 attracts foreign tourists, making Bangkok the most searched destination in Thailand on Airbnb.
Loy Krathong Festival 2023 attracts foreign tourists, making Bangkok the most searched destination in Thailand on Airbnb.
November 24, 2023, Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed that Airbnb's search engine reveals that people's search for properties in Thailand increased by 17 per cent during Loy Krathong 2023. Bangkok ranks as the top destination in Thailand, followed by Chiang Mai, Pattaya, Phuket, Koh Samui, Hua Hin, Koh Phangan, and Krabi.
Based on the Airbnb platform, during November–December 2023, there was an 88 per cent increase in Chinese tourists searching for accommodation in Thailand, and the Chinese had the highest number of hotel bookings in Thailand. Moreover, Australian tourist's search for accommodation in Thailand increased by 16 per cent in the last two months of 2023.
In 2023, the number of Airbnb hotel bookings in Thailand increased by more than 30 per cent compared to the previous year. Airbnb revealed that travelers from all over the world consider Thailand an interesting destination. Tourists want to experience Thai uniqueness, hospitality, culture, food, and traditions.
The Government Spokesperson emphasized that Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin hopes Thailand will continuously meet the demands of tourists. And reassure that the government will proceed with policies to respond to the demand of tourists and keep up with the trend. The PM also expects that the government's proactive tourism policy will be a driving force to stimulate the country's overall economy and wishes all Thais could join together as good hosts during this year's Loy Krathong Festival and High Season to impress all tourists.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/75448