รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM welcomes chairman of Majlis ash-Shura (Consultative Assembly) of Saudi Arabia and delegation


วันเสาร์ที่ 22 กรกฎาคม 2566
PM welcomes chairman of Majlis ash-Shura (Consultative Assembly) of Saudi Arabia and delegation
PM welcomes chairman of Majlis ash-Shura (Consultative Assembly) of Saudi Arabia and delegation
July 20, 2023, at 10.00 hrs, at Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Dr. Abdullah Mohammed Ibrahim Al-Sheikh, chairman of the Majlis ash-Shura (Consultative Assembly) of Saudi Arabia and the delegation, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his official visit to Thailand as guest of the Senate. Participating in the meeting were Prime Minister’s Secretary-General Pirapan Salirathavibhaga, Prime Minister’s Deputy Secretary-General on Political Affairs Pratheep Kiratirekha, Senator Suwat Jiraphan, Saudi-Thai Parliamentary Friendship Committee chair ACM Prajin Juntong, and Director General of the Department of South Asia, Middle East and African Affairs Worawut Phongprapapun.
The delegation of Saudi Arabia included H.E. Dr. Abdullah Mohammed Ibrahim Al-Sheikh (chairman of the Majlis ash-Shura); H.E. Mr. Abdulrahman A. Alsuhaibani (Saudi Ambassador to Thailand); Dr. Hussain Nasser Alsharif (member of the Majlis ash-Shura and vice chair of Saudi-Thai Parliamentary Friendship Committee); Dr. Esa Rfaiay Alotaibi (member of the Majlis ash-Shura); Dr. Attiyah Mohammed Alatawi (member of the Majlis ash-Shura); Dr. Asmaa Soliman Almoisheer (member of the Majlis ash-Shura); Mr. Khalid Abdulkarim Alturki (Director-General of Majlis ash-Shura’s Department of Relations and Diplomatic Protocol); and Mr. Mohammed Hamad Albrahim (head of the Majlis ash-Shura’s Division of Diplomatic Protocol). Deputy Government Spokesperson Tipanan Sirichana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed and thanked the delegation of Majlis ash-Shura (Consultative Assembly) of Saudi Arabia for their historic visit to Thailand, which he believed would further strengthen legislative relations and cooperation between the Thai Senate and Majlis ash-Shura, especially in exchanging legal and regulatory views conducive to cooperation promotion between the two countries.
Diplomatic relations between Thailand and Saudi Arabia have completely been normalized, following the Prime Minister’s historic visit to Saudi Arabia upon an invitation made by His Royal Highness Prince Mohammad bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, Crown Prince, Defense Minister, and Prime Minister of Saudi Arabia. Since then, both parties have signed agreements covering tangible cooperation of all dimensions, i.e., energy, tourism, trade and investment, security, education, culture, hotel accommodation, and healthcare.
Chairman of Saudi Arabia’s Majlis ash-Shura was pleased and honored to have met with the Prime Minister. He commended Thailand’s pleasant atmosphere, with people’s freedom and respect to one another, and expressed confidence that continued interactions and meetings would enhance comprehensive relations between Thailand and Saudi Arabia, both at the royal, government, and people levels. Saudi Arabia committed to take all the meeting outcomes and views exchanged at the meeting into consideration in a bid to elevate mutual relations and cooperation.
Both parties also discussed issues of mutual interest:
Both the Prime Minister and Chairman of Saudi Arabia’s Majlis ash-Shura agreed to continue forging cordial diplomatic relations for mutual prosperity. Mutual trade and investment cooperation will also be promoted, especially investment in the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC). In order to promote tourism cooperation, Saudi Arabia is considering an exemption of visa for Thai special passport holders and tourists. The two parties also came to terms to promote cooperation under multilateral frameworks, i.e., UN, Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), and Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC).
Toward the end of the meeting, the Prime Minister conveyed felicitations to His Royal Highness Prince Mohammad bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, and reaffirmed his commitment to lay foundation for the incoming Government to continue with the endeavor in maintaining cordial relations and cooperation with Saudi Arabia.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/70616