รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on June 7, 2022


วันจันทร์ที่ 20 มิถุนายน 2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on June 7, 2022
The cabinet met on June 7, 2022. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Two draft Ministerial Regulations on Thai Industrial Standard for industrial products, B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for Medical Nitrous Oxide, B.E. …, and the draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for Medical Oxygen, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for Medical Nitrous Oxide, B.E. …, prescribes Thai Industrial Standard for medical nitrous oxide under TIS 30-2564, which is to become effective 180 days after being announced in the Royal Gazette.
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for Medical Oxygen, B.E. … prescribes Thai Industrial Standard for medical oxygen under TIS 540-2564, which is to become effective 270 days after being announced in the Royal Gazette.
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Chaiyaphum province’s Nong Bua Rahew district (Huay Yae and Wang Takhe sub-districts), and Ban Kwao district (Chee Bon sub-district), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Chaiyaphum province’s Nong Bua Rahew district (Huay Yae and Wang Takhe sub-districts), and Ban Kwao district (Chee Bon sub-district), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, pending that the effective period of the draft Royal Decree be revised from 4 years to 3 years.
Gist
The Royal Decree prescribes areas in Chaiyaphum province’s Nong Bua Rahew district (Huay Yae and Wang Takhe sub-districts), and Ban Kwao district (Chee Bon sub-district) to be expropriated for construction of a reservoir and appurtenant structures under Lam Nam Chee An Reservoir Royal Initiative Project. The project will benefit local farmers and people, address water shortage in the area, and prevent and mitigate flood situation.
Title: Report on the Industrial Economics Status for March 2022
The cabinet acknowledged Industrial Economic Report for March 2022 as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
Based on the report, manufacturing production index (MPI) slightly contracted by 0.1% YOY.
Key industries that caused the contraction were manufacture of air conditioners, Hard Disk Drives, and non-alcoholic beverages.
Key industries that have expanded well in March 2022 were manufacture of sugar, and refined petroleum production.
Title: Extension of the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in the Field of Telecommunication, Information and Communication Technology and Digital Technology between the Ministry of Digital Economy and Society of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Ministry of Transport and Communications of the Republic of Finland
The cabinet approved the signing of the draft Extension of the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in the Field of Telecommunication, Information and Communication Technology and Digital Technology between the Ministry of Digital Economy and Society of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Ministry of Transport and Communications of the Republic of Finland. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against the principle approved by the cabinet, Ministry of Digital Economy and Society may proceed and inform the cabinet later. Minister of Digital Economy and Society is authorized as signatory of the MOU. This is as proposed by Ministry of Digital Economy and Society.
Gist
The draft Extension of the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in the Field of Telecommunication, Information and Communication Technology and Digital Technology between the Ministry of Digital Economy and Society of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Ministry of Transport and Communications of the Republic of Finland is aimed to promote cooperation and exchange in 9 areas, namely, 1) information Communication Technology (ICT) policy and regulation; 2) ICT & digital promotion and development; 3) broadband infrastructure and services; 4) digital innovations; 5) digital ecosystem; 6) digital opportunities; 7) learning through digital technology; 8) promotion of digital startups and SMEs; and 9) exchange of knowledge and experiences on human resource development.
However, due to the COVID-19 situation, many implementations under the MOU had been halted, The MOU was first effective for 3 years from the day on signing and already ended on August 21, 2021. In light of this, Ministry of Transport and Communications of the Republic of Finland expressed its intent to extend the MOU, and an agreement has been reached to have the MOU extended for another 3 years during August 22, 2021 and August 21, 2024.
Title: Request for approval on Thailand’s additional position for WTO’s Twelfth Ministerial Conference (MC12)
The cabinet approved the following proposals made by Ministry of Commerce:
Approved Thailand’s position for WTO’s Twelfth Ministerial Conference (MC12) and related meetings, in addition to those approved earlier by the cabinet on November 23, 2021.
Approved for Minister of Commerce or a representative to adopt outcome documents of MC12 and related meetings.
Should there be an amendment of the documents in 2, which is in parts that are not against national interest, Ministry of Commerce may proceed and inform the cabinet later of the change.
Gist
Thailand’s additional positions include the following agendas being deliberated by WTO: 1) food security, 2) declaration on sanitary and phytosanitary, 3) recognition on LDC status graduation, 4) enhancement of WTO’s role in the response against COVID-19 and future epidemics, and 5) trade and environment.
MC12 and related meetings will take place during June 12-15, 2022 in Geneva, the Swiss Confederation.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/55902