รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on May 17, 2022


วันจันทร์ที่ 23 พฤษภาคม 2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on May 17, 2022
The cabinet met on May 17, 2022
The cabinet met on May 17, 2022. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Extension of Agreement on Establishment of ASEAN – Japan Centre (AJC)
The cabinet approved an extension of The Agreement Establishing the ASEAN Promotion Centre on Trade, Investment and Tourism for another 5 years from May 25, 2022 to May 24, 2027, and authorized Ministry of Commerce’s Department of International Trade as signatory of the extension of agreement. This is as proposed by Ministry of Commerce.
Gist
The ASEAN Promotion Centre on Trade, Investment and Tourism (ASEAN-Japan Centre) is an intergovernmental organization established by the ASEAN Member States and Japan in 1981. It has been promoting exports from the ASEAN Member States to Japan while revitalizing investment, tourism as well as people-to-people exchanges between the ASEAN Member States and Japan through seminars, workshops, capacity building programs, research and policy analysis, cross-cultural events, publication and information services, among others.
At the The 41st  Annual Meeting of the Council of ASEAN and Japan, extension of the AJC has been approved. Extension clause has been included in the Addendum of the Agreement as follows: “Decision of the Council on the Extension of the Agreement Establishing the ASEAN Promotion Centre on Trade, Investment and Tourism In accordance with the Article XXIV of the Agreement, the Council decided that the Agreement be extended for another five years beginning May 25, 2022, at its Forty - First Annual Meeting of the Council on March 17, 2022, Tokyo, Japan.”
Title: Request for budget allocation (central contingency fund) for expenses on publicity of Thailand’s hosting of APEC 2022 and Government’s major achievements
The cabinet approved budget allocation (FY 2022 central contingency fund) to the Department of Public Relations for expenses on publicity of Thailand’s hosting of APEC 2022 and Government’s major achievements, for the total amount of 399,572,400 Baht. Ministry of Finance has approved extension of budget disbursement to the last day of November 2022.
This is as proposed by Office of Minister Attached to the Prime Minister’s Office.
Title: Draft Bangkok Declaration for Commemoration of the 75th Anniversary of Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP): A common agenda to advance sustainable development in Asia and the Pacific
The cabinet approved the draft Bangkok Declaration for Commemoration of the 75th Anniversary of Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP): A common agenda to advance sustainable development in Asia and the Pacific. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed as appropriate. Minister of Foreign Affairs, as head of the Thai delegation at the meeting, or a representative, is authorized to adopt the draft Declaration. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
Heads of State, senior government officials and other stakeholders from 62 countries will convene from 23 to 27 May at the 78th session of the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) to shape the future of regional cooperation to advance the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and deliver on the promise of leaving no one behind.
The draft Bangkok Declaration for Commemoration of the 75th Anniversary of Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP): A common agenda to advance sustainable development in Asia and the Pacific prescribes joint political intent of ESCAP member states in strengthening the resilience of the people and nations in Asia and the Pacific.
Title: Statement on Indo-Pacific Economic Framework for Prosperity
The cabinet approved the draft Statement on Indo-Pacific Economic Framework for Prosperity, and for Ministry of Foreign Affairs to express Thailand’s intent to join the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework (IPEF), and to be included (specified) in the draft Statement. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed as appropriate.
Gist
The draft Statement on Indo-Pacific Economic Framework for Prosperity prescribes the intent of participating states to promote economic cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region and to discuss cooperation direction under the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework (IPEF) for inclusive and stable economic growth and sustainable development in the following 4 cooperation pillars: 1) trade; 2) supply chain; 3) clean energy, reduction of carbon emission, and infrastructure; and 4) taxation and anti-corruption. Once the detail is finalized, each participating nations may opt to join any of the 4 pillars.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/54872