รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on July 12, 2022


วันจันทร์ที่ 18 กรกฎาคม 2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on July 12, 2022
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Announcement of Prime Minister’s Office and Ministry of Interior on Quota of Aliens to have residence in the Kingdom for the year …
The cabinet approved the draft Announcement of Prime Minister’s Office and Ministry of Interior on Quota of Aliens to have residence in the Kingdom for the year …, as proposed by Ministry of Interior, and ordered the ministry to take into consideration comments of the Office of Council of State.
Gist
The draft Announcement of Prime Minister’s Office and Ministry of Interior on Quota of Aliens to have residence in the Kingdom for the year … stipulates the immigration quota for 2022 of not exceeding 100 persons per year from each country (all the colonies of a country or each self–governing country shall be recognized as one country), and not exceeding 50 persons who have no nationality.
Title:  Request for FY 2022 budget allocation (Government’s contingency fund for emergency) for restoration of school buildings and constructions of natural disaster-hit schools under Office of the Basic Education Commission
The cabinet approved FY2022 budget allocation (Government’s contingency fund for emergency) for restoration of school buildings and constructions of natural disaster-hit schools under Office of the Basic Education Commission. The approved budget framework is 395,237,200 Baht. This is a sproposed by Ministry of Education.
Gist
The approved budget of 395,237,200 Baht will be spent for the restoration of buildings and constructions in 1,017 schools in Bangkok and other 67 provinces which have been damaged by natural disasters.
Title: Tax measures to promote tourism and other related industries
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Finance:
A tax measure to promote domestic seminar organization and a draft royal decree, no. … (B.E. …) issued under the Revenue Code on tax exemption
A tax measure to promote domestic exhibition/EXPO organization and a draft royal decree, no. … (B.E. …) issued under the Revenue Code on tax exemption
Gist
A tax measure to promote domestic seminar organization will take effect during July 15- December 31, 2022. For companies or juristic partnerships:
expenses made on seminar rooms, accommodations, logistics, or any other related expenses allows a double deduction if the seminar is organized in secondary tourism provinces or any tourism areas announced by Director-General of the Revenue Department under the guidance of Ministry of Tourism and Sports
expenses made on seminar rooms, accommodations, logistics, or any other related expenses allows a 1.5-times deduction if the seminar is organized in other places and provinces that are not stipulated in 1.
A tax measure to promote domestic exhibition/EXPO organization will take effect during July 15- December 31, 2022. For companies or juristic partnerships, expenses made on venue rental and exhibition service fees allows a double deduction.
Title:  Request for FY 2022 budget allocation (Government’s contingency fund for emergency) for control of lumpy skin disease in cattles
The cabinet approved FY2022 budget allocation (Government’s contingency fund for emergency) for control of lumpy skin disease in cattles, as proposed by Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives. The approved budget framework of 231,950,000 Baht will be divided into 2 portions for 2 purposes:
1) for the purchase of 6,300,000 doses of lumpy skin vaccine, for the total amount of 226,800,000 Baht; and
2) for the procurement of medical supplies for vaccination, for the total amount of 5,150,000 Baht.
Title: Draft Declaration for 2022 High-Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development (HLPF)
The cabinet approved the draft Declaration for 2022 High-Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development (HLPF). Should there be an amendment in parts they are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed as appropriate without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs or the Permanent Representative of Thailand to the United Nations, New York is authorized to adopt the draft Declaration on behalf of Thailand. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
The United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) host an annual HLPF for 2022 during July 5-15, 2022 at the UN Headquarters, under the theme: “Building back better from the coronavirus disease (COVD - 19) while advancing the full implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development”. At the HLPF, in-depth discussion will be made on 5 SDGs, namely, Goal 4 (Quality Education); Goal 5 (Gender Equality); Goal 14 (Life below Water); Goal 15 (Life on Land); and Goal 17 (Partnerships for the Goals).
The draft Declaration for 2022 High-Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development (HLPF) prescribes joint political intention of UN member nations in achieving the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (2030 Agenda), and responding to and rehabilitating from the COVID-19 crisis at the global level.
Title: Outcome of the AEMs’ Special Meeting held in Bali, Republic of Indonesia
The cabinet acknowledged Ministry of Commerce’s proposal on outcome of ASEAN Economic Ministers’ Special Meeting (AEMs’ Special Meeting), which was held in Bali, Republic of Indonesia during May 17-19, 2022. Thailand was represented by Assistant to Minister of Commerce (Sansern Samalabha)
Several agendas were discussed at the AEMs’ Special Meeting, which include the global economic situation, Indo-Pacific Economic Framework (IPEF), Ratification of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) of the Republic of the Philippines and Indonesia, the Twelfth Ministerial Conference of World Trade Organization (MC12), trade and environmental/climate change measures, and ASEAN’s future fundamental program initiative.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/56993