รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on December 7, 2021


วันอังคารที่ 14 ธันวาคม 2564
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on December 7, 2021
The cabinet met on December 7, 2021
The cabinet met on December 7, 2021. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Commerce Ministerial Announcement on Measures regarding Control of Items in Relations to Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction, and Measures regarding Item with Reasonable Doubt Concerning Connection between an end-use or an end-user and the proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction, B.E. 2564
The cabinet acknowledged Commerce Ministerial Announcement on Measures regarding Control of Items in Relations to Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction, and Measures regarding Item with Reasonable Doubt Concerning Connection between an end-use or an end-user and the proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction, B.E. 2564, which was announced in the Royal Gazette on October 27, 2021, and will take effect on December 26, 2021.
The Announcement prescribes measures in order to control the proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction including measures with regard to Item with reasonable doubt concerning a connection between an end-use or an end-user and the proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for Public Playground Equipment
The cabinet approved 4 draft ministerial regulations prescribing industrial and safety standard of public playground equipment to better protect the health of children and prevent death and injury.
The 4 draft ministerial regulations are:
1.       Draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for Public Playground Equipment: Swings, B.E. …
2.       Draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for Public Playground Equipment: Sliders, B.E. …
3.       Draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for Public Playground Equipment: Carousels, B.E. …
4.       Draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for Public Playground Equipment: Rocking Equipment, B.E. …
The 4 draft ministerial regulations prescribe Thai Industrial Standard for swings, sliders, playground carousels, and rocking equipment, in accordance with the resolution made at the 10th National Health Assembly, and in line with the National Strategy regarding public sector rebalancing and development, which aims to reform the country's governmental administrative services and regulations to facilitate the people.
Title: Cancellation of part of Koh Chang National Park for Construction of Khlong Phrow Reservoir (Trat province)
The cabinet approved in principle cancellation of part of Koh Chang National Park in Trat province for Construction of Khlong Phrow Reservoir. The cancellation will be made for the area of 81 rai of the National Park, as proposed by Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives.
Gist
Construction of Khlong Phrow Reservoir is aimed to address water shortage in the area of Koh Chang during the dry season, and provide the local people with water retention source for agricultural, consumption, and tourism purposes. The construction period is 3 years (2021-2023) with the total budget of 452.03 million Baht.
Title: Budget Allocation Strategy for FY2023
The cabinet approved the Budget Allocation Strategy for FY2023 as proposed by The Budget Bureau.
Gist
Budget Allocation Strategy for FY2023 has been drafted in accordance with the National Strategy (2018-2027), Master Plan under the National Strategy (2018-2027), draft 13th Socio-Economic Development Plan, draft National Policy and Plan on National Security (2023-2027), National Reform Plan (revised), and the Government policies, in order to achieve 13 following development milestones set in the 13th Socio-Economic Development Plan:
1st Milestone: Thailand is a leading country in high value agricultural and processed food products.
2nd Milestone: Thailand is a tourist destination that prioritizes quality and sustainability.
3rd Milestone: Thailand is the world’s major electric vehicle manufacturing base.
4th Milestone: Thailand is a hub of high-value medical and health services.
5th Milestone: Thailand is a major gateway to regional trade and investment, and logistics hub
6th Milestone: Thailand is ASEAN’s hub for smart electronic industry and digital services.
7th Milestone: Thailand has strong, high-potential, and competitive SMEs.
8th Milestone: Thailand has safe and livable space and smart cities that grow sustainably.
9th Milestone: Decrease of generational poverty in Thailand, and adequate and proper social protection for Thai people.
10th Milestone: Thailand has a circular economy and a low-carbon society.
11th Milestone: Thailand can reduce risk and impact of natural disasters and climate change.
12th Milestone: Thailand has skilled workers with desire to learn and forward mindset.
13th Milestone: Thailand has a modern and highly efficient public sector
The Budget Allocation Strategy for FY2023 comprises 6 following strategies:
Strategy on security
Strategy on national competitiveness
Strategy on human resource development and capacity enhancement
Strategy on creating a society of opportunity and fairness
Strategy on green quality of life and growth
Strategy on balancing and improving public administration system
Title: Agreement on Peacebuilding Fund Management
The cabinet approved an Agreement on the management of Peacebuilding Fund (PBF), and approved Ambassador and Permanent Representative of Thailand to the United Nations in New York as signatory of the Agreement on behalf of Thailand. Should there be an amendment, prior to the signing, that are not gist, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
Peacebuilding Fund (PBF) has been established by the United Nations on September 8, 2006 for peacebuilding and sustainability. On January 26, 2021, H.E. Mr. Don Pramudwinai, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Thailand, participated in the virtual High-level Replenishment Conference for the Peacebuilding Fund and announced Thailand’s voluntary contribution of 100,000 USD to the United Nations Peacebuilding Fund (PBF) in 2021, while highlighting Thailand’s constructive roles in peacebuilding and sustaining peace.
The Agreement is made between Thailand and UNDP, and prescribes detail of the contribution and PBF management in accordance with the criteria imposed upon recipient organization and administrative agent without any binding obligation on the donor.
Title: Request for approval of documents to be adopted at 4th Ministerial Conference on Transport
The cabinet approved the documents to be adopted at 4th ESCAP Ministerial Conference on Transport, held on December 14-17, 2021 via a teleconference. The two documents are: 1) Ministerial Declaration on Sustainable Transport Development in Asia and the Pacific; and 2) Regional Action Programme for Sustainable Transport Connectivity in Asia and the Pacific (2022-2026).
Minister of Transport or a representative is authorized to adopt the two documents. This is as proposed by Ministry of Transport.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/49415