รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on July 18, 2022


วันอาทิตย์ที่ 24 กรกฎาคม 2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on July 18, 2022
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Loan for financial liquidity of Bangkok Mass Transit Authority (BMTA), FY 2023
The cabinet approved the proposal of Ministry of Transport for the Bangkok mass Transit Authority (BMTA) to seek loan to enhance its financial liquidity for fiscal year 2023 for the total amount of 7,516.909 million Baht. Ministry of Finance will serve as the guarantor and will determine the conditions and details for the loan.
Gist
Aside from increasing cashflow, the loan will be used for the payment of fuels and vehicle repair. This new loan will help BMTA save on interest payments by 180.955 million baht, or 81.78% per year.
Title: Fourth ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on Women
The cabinet acknowledged outcome of the draft Fourth ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on Womenand other related meetings, held on October 11-15, 2021 in Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, and approved the Joint Statement of the Fourth ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on Women, as proposed by Ministry of Social Development and Human Security.
Gist
The draft Joint Statement of the Fourth ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on Women is aimed to reaffirm commitment of all member states to promote gender equality and empowerment of all women and girls in the ASEAN region pursuant to the ASEAN Community Vision 2025.
Gist of the draft Joint Statement is as follows:
1. Expresses awareness on the long-term and gendered impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic among women and girls
2. Recognizes that women tend to fare worse than men for many SDG-related outcomes, and that groups of women living in rural areas, in poor households, ethnic women, women with disabilities, and migrant women, face the most risk of being left behind in relation to SDG progress
3. Underscores opportunities afforded by the digital revolution such as access to the digital economy, promoting women’s digital entrepreneurship, and strengthening digital literacy and competitiveness are equipping the women of ASEAN to adapt and thrive in the post-pandemic ASEAN region
4. Accelerates efforts that include women in the digital economy through providing or improving accessibility, affordability of financial products and services, conducting capacity building or trainings, enhancing market opportunities and linkages, and other policy, program and infrastructure support
5. Strengthens consultative platforms and mechanism that directly engage women in decision- and policy-making processes, and amplify their voices and consider their needs, to ensure that the design and implementation of policies and programs are gender-responsive
Ministry of Social Development and Human Security will later notify the ASEAN Secretariat on the cabinet’s approval of the draft Joint Statement of the Fourth ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on Women.
Title: Agreement between Office of Atoms for Peace and United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (USNRC) on exchange of technical information and cooperation on nuclear safety
The cabinet approved an Agreement between Office of Atoms for Peace and United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (USNRC) on exchange of technical information and cooperation on nuclear safety. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation shall proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Secretary General of Office of Atoms for Peaceor a representative is authorized as signatory of the Agreement.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/57190