รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on February 22, 2022


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 24 กุมภาพันธ์ 2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on February 22, 2022
The cabinet met on February 22, 2022
The cabinet met on February 22, 2022. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Biodiversity Act, B.E. …
The cabinet approved and acknowledged the followings:
Approved in principle the draft Biodiversity Act, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment.
Acknowledged plan for the drafting of organic laws, its gist, and timeframe, to be issued under the draft Biodiversity Act, B.E. ….
The draft Biodiversity Act, B.E. … prescribes management, conservation, access, and utilization of biodiversity, and benefit sharing from bioresources, as well as biosafety against Living Modified Organisms (LMOs), with an aim to promote biodiversity-based economy development, and drive the BCG economy. The Biodiversity Act was drafted in line with international laws on biodiversity to prepare Thailand to become a party to biodiversity-related treaties.
Title: Request for budget approval to mitigate spread of COVID-19 pandemic in prisons and correctional facilities
The cabinet approved the budget of 150.69 million Baht from the central budget (contingency fund) for the Department of Corrections to procure 19 items of COVID-19 essential supplies as part of the Department’s effort to curb the spread of COVID-19 pandemic in correctional facilities across the country. This is as proposed by Ministry of Justice.
The list of essential supplies to be procured include 162,000 PPEs, 162,000 N95 masks, 540,000 rubber gloves, 454,674 ATK test kits, liquid alcohols, fingertip pulse oximeters, PCR liquid, among others. These supplies will be distributed to prisons and correctional facilities that are facing the shortage of COVID-19 supplies.
Title: Thailand’s position framework and outcome documents for UNEA5.2 and UNEP@50
The cabinet approved the following proposals made by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment:
Approved Thailand’s position framework and outcome documents for the second segment of the fifth UN Environment Assembly (UNEA5.2) and Special Session of the UN Environment Assembly (UNEP@50)
Approved in principle 17 draft resolutions to promote cooperation with UNEP and othr countries in addressing global environmental issues
Approved in principle for Thailand to co-spomsor selected resolutions: (1) Draft resolution on the Sound Management of Chemicals and Waste (2) Draft resolution for a Science-Policy Panel to support action on chemicals, waste and pollution (3) Draft resolution on Green recovery and (4) Draft resolution on Circular Economy
Approved in principle the draft Ministerial Declaration of the United Nations Environment Assembly and draft Political Declaration of the Special Session of the United Nations Environment Assembly to commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the establishment of the United Nations Environment Programme
Authorized head of the Thai delegation or a representative to adopt the draft Ministerial Declaration and draft Political Declaration. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest head of the Thai delegation may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
Title: Draft Joint Press Statement for Official Visit of Malaysian Prime Minister
The cabinet approved the draft Joint Press Statement for the Official Visit of Malaysian Prime Minister. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. The Prime Minister is authorized to adopt the draft Joint Press Statement in his meeting with the Malaysian Prime Minister on February 25, 2022. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
The draft Joint Press Statement is aimed to demonstrate joint commitment between the two Prime Ministers in enhancing bilateral relations and comprehensive cooperation, as well as in promoting post-COVID-19 socio-economic rehabilitation through: (1) Reconnecting the Connectivities; (2) Reinvigorating the Economy; (3) Reassuring Security and Stability; and (4) Revitalising Bilateral Mechanisms.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/51913