รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met via a video conference on August 17, 2021.


วันจันทร์ที่ 23 สิงหาคม 2564
The cabinet met via a video conference on August 17, 2021.
The cabinet met via a video conference on August 17, 2021.
The cabinet met via a video conference on August 17, 2021. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Trang province’s Kantang district (Kuan Thani subdistrict), and Muang district (Kok Lor and Kuan Pring subdistricts), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Trang province’s Kantang district (Kuan Thani subdistrict), and Muang district (Kok Lor and Kuan Pring subdistricts), B.E. …, as proposed by Minister of Transport.
Gist
The Royal Decree prescribes areas in Trang province’s Kantang district (Kuan Thani subdistrict), and Muang district (Kok Lor and Kuan Pring subdistricts) to be expropriated for the expansion of Trang Airport (extension of the Airport’s runway from 2,100 meters to 2,990 meters)
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for single-use medical examination gloves, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for single-use medical examination gloves, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for single-use medical examination gloves, B.E. …, prescribes Thai Industrial Standard for single-use medical examination gloves under TIS 1056 Book 1-2013, in accordance with the Ministerial Announcement No. 4596 (B.E. 2557), issued under the Industrial Product Standards Act B.E. 2511, on Withdrawal and Prescription of Thai Industrial Standard for single-use medical examination gloves.
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land readjustment in Nong Lad nad Khamin sub-districts, Muang Sakon Nakhon district, Sakon Nakhon province, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Royal Decree on land readjustment in Phrom Nimit and Soi Thong sub-districts, Ta Khli district, Nakhon Sawan province, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives.
Gist
The draft Royal Decree on land readjustment in Nong Lad nad Khamin sub-districts, Muang Sakon Nakhon district, Sakon Nakhon province, B.E. … prescribes scope of land to be readjusted in Nong Lad nad Khamin sub-districts, Muang Sakon Nakhon district, Sakon Nakhon province for agricultural purpose. Readjusted land will be benefited from the irrigation system and have access to public utilities, thereby, promoting the country’s agriculture, and increase of farmers’ revenues.
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land readjustment in Muang Khai sub-districts, Phang Khon district, Sakon Nakhon province, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Royal Decree on land readjustment in Muang Khai sub-districts, Phang Khon district, Sakon Nakhon province, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives.
Gist
The draft Royal Decree on land readjustment in Muang Khai sub-districts, Phang Khon district, Sakon Nakhon province, B.E. … prescribes scope of land to be readjusted in Muang Khai sub-districts, Phang Khon district, Sakon Nakhon province for agricultural purpose. Readjusted land will be benefited from the irrigation system and have access to public utilities, thereby, promoting the country’s agriculture, and increase of farmers’ revenues.
Title: Draft Royal Decree on status revocation of land which is a public domain for common use by the citizens in Hin Lek Fai subdistrict, Hua Hin district, Prachuab Kirikhan province, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Draft Royal Decree on status revocation of land which is a public domain for common use by the citizens in Hin Lek Fai subdistrict, Hua Hin district, Prachuab Kirikhan province, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Interior.
Gist
The draft Royal Decree prescribes status revocation of land, which is a public domain for common use by the citizens, in Hin Lek Fai subdistrict, Hua Hin district, Prachuab Kirikhan province, with the area of 3 Ngan, for Hua Hin Subdistrict Administrative Organization to use for the construction of Hua Hin day-care center.
Title: Outcome Document of the First Meeting of the Guangdong –Thailand high Level Cooperation Conference
The cabinet approved the draft Outcome Document of the First Meeting of the Guangdong –Thailand high Level Cooperation Conference. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Industry is authorized to jointly adopted the document with the Governor of Guangdong, People’s Republic of China. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
The First Meeting of the Guangdong –Thailand high Level Cooperation Conference is aimed to promote in-depth economic and industrial cooperation, as well as GBA-EEC connectivity. Areas of cooperation to be promoted include smart industry, trade and investment, modern agriculture, culture, tourism, public health, local-level exchange, clean energy, science, technology and innovation, finances and capital market, and other areas of mutual potential.
Title: Donation of vaccine from Kingdom of Bhutan and Monoclonal Antibody (Casirivimab/Imdevimab) from Federal Republic of Germany
The cabinet approved the signing of the In-kind Donation Agreement between Thai Ministry of Public Health and Minister of Public Health of Federal Republic of Germany on donation of Monoclonal Antibody (Casirivimab/Imdevimab), and authorized Director General of the Department of Disease Control as signatory. The cabinet also approved the signing of the Form of Agreement: Tripartite Agreement between Thailand and Bhutan, and AstraZeneca, and authorized Director General of the Department of Disease Control as signatory.
Gist
The Government of Bhutan expressed intent to donate 130,000 – 150,000 doses of AstraZeneca vaccine to Thailand on the returnable basis under the Tripartite Agreement (Non-negotiable agreement) between Thailand and Bhutan, and AstraZeneca.
The Government of Germany expressed intent to donate 1,000 – 2,000 sets of Monoclonal Antibody (Casirivimab/Imdevimab) unconditionally on a humanitarian basis.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/45069