รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met via a video conference on June 15, 2021


วันเสาร์ที่ 19 มิถุนายน 2564
พิมพ์
The cabinet met via a video conference on June 15, 2021
The cabinet met via a video conference on June 15, 2021
The cabinet met via a video conference on June 15, 2021. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Exemption of customs and excise duties for THEOS-2 satellite program (2 draft Finance Ministerial Announcements)
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Finance:
1. Approved in principle the draft Finance Ministerial Announcement on exemption of customs duties for THEOS-2 satellite program
2. Approved in principle the draft Finance Ministerial Announcement on exemption of excise duties for THEOS-2 satellite program
Gist
The draft Finance Ministerial Announcements on exemption of customs and excise duties for THEOS-2 satellite program prescribes exemption of customs and excise duties for devices and equipment imported for use in the projects under THEOS-2. The two Ministerial Announcementsshall take effect from the day after the two Ministerial Announcements are announced in the Royal Gazette until December 31, 2022.
The approval was made with an aim to promote the country’s space economy and spatial management, as well as technology transfer.
Title: Draft Early Childhood Development Plan (2020-2027)
The cabinet approved the following proposals made by Ministry of Education:
1. Approved the (draft) Early Childhood Development Plan (2020-2027)
2. Assigned concerned ministries and local administrations to perform duties and missions, and develop action plans within the framework of the (draft) Early Childhood Development Plan (2020-2027)
3. Office of the Education Council is to act as a liaison office for the budget planning and the development of integrative annual action plan, to be in line with the Early Childhood Development Plan (2020-2027)
Gist
The (draft) Early Childhood Development Plan (2020-2027) has been developed in line with the 20-Year National Strategy, Master Plan under the 20-Year National Strategy, and the National Education Plan (2017-2036). The key policies under the Early Childhood Development Plan (2020-2027) are: 1) All early childhood children shall be comprehensively and continuouslydeveloped according to their potentials and ages; 2) Child development under Policy 1 must be well organized and intercorrelated at both national, central, provincial, and local levels; and 3) Public and all other sectors must jointly mobilize resources for child development under Policy 1.
Title: Outcome of the 24th ASEAN+3 Finance Ministers' and Central Bank Governors' Meeting (AFMGM+3)
The cabinet acknowledged the outcome of the 24th ASEAN+3 Finance Ministers' and Central Bank Governors' Meeting (AFMGM+3), co-chaired by the Republic of Korea, and Brunei Darussalam and held via teleconference on May 3, 2021. Minister of Finance was head of the Thai delegation to attend the meeting.
Gist of the Outcome:
1. Recent Economic and Financial Developments in the Region: Economicrebound is expected in 2021 as the recovery gathers momentum and vaccine rollouts allow a gradual opening up of the economies. As for Thailand, Thai economy is expected to grow by 2.3% in 2021, and 4.8% in 2022. Nevertheless, the meeting agreed to remain vigilant to the downside risks and will use all available policy tools to ensure an inclusive and sustainable recovery and maintainfinancial stability.
2. Strengthening Regional Financial Cooperation: The meeting congratulated and reaffirmed commitment to further strengthen Chiang Mai Initiative Multilateralisation(CMIM), and acknowledged the implementation progress of Asian Bond Markets Initiative (ABMI).
3. Others: The Thai Minister of Finance reiterated the importance of inclusive and sustainable economic development, and endorsed promotion of ASEAN+3 Multi-currency Bond Issuance Framework (AMBIF) bonds.
Title: Ministerial Statement of the Third Structural Reform Ministerial Meeting
The cabinet approved the draft Ministerial Statement of the Third Structural Reform Ministerial Meeting. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Office of National Eocnomicand Social Development Council may proceed and reported to the cabinet later. Deputy Prime Minister Supattanapong Punmeechaow or a representative is assigned as head of the Thai delegation to attend the Third Structural Reform Ministerial Meeting via a teleconference on June 16, 2021, and to adopt the Ministerial Statementwithout signing. This is as proposed by Office of National Eocnomic and Social Development Council.
Gist
Agendas to be discussed at the Third Structural Reform Ministerial Meeting include: 1) Third Structural Reform Ministerial Meeting; 2) Relationship between macroeconomic and microeconomic policies which promotes effective recovery from severe economic impact situations; and 3) Endorsement of: (1) the Enhanced APEC Agenda for Structural Reform (EAASR) 2021-2025, and (2) The Third Ease of Doing Business Action Plan.
​​
Title: Request for approval on Joint Statement of the Special AMEM-METI Consultations Meeting​
The cabinet approved the following proposals made by Ministry of Energy:
1. Approved the draft Joint Statement of the Special ASEAN Ministers on Energy and Japan Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry (AMEM-METI) Consultations Meeting
2. Approved for Minister of Energy (or a representative) to adopt the joint statement.
3. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Minister of Energy and the Thai delegation may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
Gist
The Special ASEAN Ministers on Energy and Japan Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry (AMEM-METI) Consultations Meeting will be held via a teleconference on June 21, 2021. ASIA Energy Transition Initiative (AETI) will be endorsed at the Meeting.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/42876