รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on April 12, 2022


วันจันทร์ที่ 2 พฤษภาคม 2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on April 12, 2022
The cabinet met on April 12, 2022. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on Member of House of Representatives Election for 3rd constituency of Ratchaburi Province (vacancy replacement), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on Member of House of Representatives Election for 3rd constituency of Ratchaburi Province (vacancy replacement), B.E. …, as proposed by the Election Commission.
Once the draft Royal Decree on Member of House of Representatives Election for 3rd constituency of Ratchaburi Province (vacancy replacement), B.E. … takes effect, the Election Commission shall make an announcement on the date of election and other related operations in accordance with Section 12 of the Organic Act on the Election of Members of the House of Representatives, B.E. 2561.
Title: Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment’s preparation for Songkran Holidays
The cabinet acknowledged Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment’s proposal on the preparation for Songkran Holidays.
Gist
Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment’s preparation for Songkran Holidays during April 13-17 is as follows:
Establishing road and marine service centers: To help out the people in case of emergency
Offering free drinking water at groundwater sources throughout the country
A campaign for tourism with safety and environmental awareness in national parks, zoos, museums, and other tourism sites under the care of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment.
Title: Glasgow Leaders’ Declaration on Forests and Land Use
The cabinet approved for Thailand to join the Glasgow Leaders’ Declaration on Forests and Land Use, and assigned Minister of Natural Resources and Environment to sign the letter to confirm Thailand’s participation in the Declaration. This is as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment.
Gist
The Glasgow Leaders’ Declaration on Forests and Land Use is aimed to underscore the importance of sustainable management of forests, biodiversity, and land use, and to affirm commitment to reduce deforestation and land degradation by 2030. Key issues under the Declaration are: 1) conserving forests and terrestrial ecosystems; 2) endorsing trade and development policies that are related to sustainable production and consumption; 3) enhancing local community immunity; 4) implementing or revising sustainable agriculture and food security policies; 5) financially supporting sustainable agriculture and forest management; and 6) facilitating the flowing of working capital in line with the goal on reforestation and areas and land restoration.
Title: Outcome of Asia Cooperation Dialogue Ministerial Meeting
The cabinet acknowledged the outcome of Asia Cooperation Dialogue Ministerial Meeting, as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and assigned concerned agencies to proceed accordingly.
Gist
The Asia Cooperation Dialogue (ACD) Ministerial Meeting was held on November 17, 2021, and was hosted by Bahrain, via video conference. Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs Vijavat Isarabhakdi represented Thailand at the meeting, which was attended by representatives of 35 ACD member countries.
The outcome of Asia Cooperation Dialogue Ministerial Meeting prescribes: 1) Turkey’s handover of ACD chairmanship for 2021-2022 to Bahrain who will host ACD under the theme “Post-Pandemic, Green Recovery in the Health Field”; 2) the Second ACD Blueprint 2021-2030 which will serve as a guideline to steer cooperation in 6 areas towards the realization of the ACD Vision 2030; and 3) Statement of the Thai representative to reaffirm Thailand’s commitment to drive cooperation under the ACD framework for mutual benefits of the members, and urge ACD member countries to enhance cooperation and explore alternative economic models, including the Bio-Circular- Green (BCG) Economy Model, for post COVID-19 economic recovery. As the host economy of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) for 2022, Thailand reiterated its readiness to intertwine cooperation between ACD and APEC to drive forward regional development under the theme “Open-Connect-Balance."

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/54129