รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on June 28, 2022


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 30 มิถุนายน 2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on June 28, 2022
The cabinet met on June 28, 2022. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
The cabinet met on June 28, 2022. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree Issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Value-Added Tax (No. …), B.E. … (Tax measure to promote investment in Data Centre)
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Royal Decree Issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Value-Added Tax (No. …), B.E. … (Tax measure to promote investment in Data Centre), as proposed by Ministry of Finance, and ordered for immediate scrutiny of Office of Council of State before proceeding.
Gist
It is in the consideration of Ministry of Finance to impose tax privileges to promote investment in the Data Centre in accordance with the Government’s policy to promote Thailand as Regional Digital Hub.
The draft Royal Decree Issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Value-Added Tax (No. …), B.E. … (Tax measure to promote investment in Data Centre) prescribes VAT exemption for provision of servers host and related equipment to electronically store, process, and connect through internet network, as well as support services (disaster recovery sites, cloud services, system management and information security services)
Eligible Data Centre operators must possess right qualifications and fully comply with criteria, procedures and conditions as announced by Director-General of the Revenue Department. They must submit the request for VAT exemption to Director-General of the Revenue Department within 5 years after the date the Royal Decree takes effect.
With the exemption of VAT, it is expected that hyperscale Data Centre operation and related businesses, such as cloud computing, in the country increase, and that Thailand will become the Regional Digital Hub. Revenues earned from the collection of corporate income tax is also expected to compensate for the loss of revenues earned from VAT.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for glow-starters for fluorescent lamps, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for glow-starters for fluorescent lamps, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Industry. Office of Council of State has scrutinized the draft Ministerial Regulation and may proceed.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for glow-starters for fluorescent lamps, B.E. …, prescribes Thai Industrial Standard for glow-starters for fluorescent lamps under TIS 183-2562, in accordance with the Ministerial Announcement No. 6166 (B.E. 2564), and issued under the Industrial Product Standards Act B.E. 2511, on Withdrawal and Prescription of Thai Industrial Standard for glow-starters for fluorescent lamps.
The draft Ministerial Regulation shall take effect 180 days after being announced in the Royal Gazette.
Title: Outcome of 1/2022 Meeting of Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC) Policy Committee on (draft) Action Plan on EEC Infrastructure and Public Utilities (2023-2027)
The cabinet acknowledged outcome of the 1/2022 meeting of Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC) Policy Committee, dated January 7, 2022, to approve the (draft) Action Plan on EEC Infrastructure and Public Utilities (2023-2027), as proposed by Office of Eastern Economic Corridor (EECO). EECO is ordered to take comments of Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Natural Resource and Environment, Ministry of Interior, and the Budget Bureau into consideration.
Gist
The (draft) Action Plan on EEC Infrastructure and Public Utilities (2023-2027) is aimed to develop seamless transport network (both road, rail, waterway, and air) in the EEC area to support logistics and public transport system. It is also aimed to develop water and electrical public utility infrastructure to accommodate modern industries, cities, and tourism activities, in line with the 20-year National Strategy, and the 13th National Economic and Social Development Plan, as well as Ministry of Transport’s plans. Under the (draft) Action Plan, 77 projects will be implemented for the total budget of 337,797.07 million Baht, comprising public investment (annual budget/loan/state enterprise budget/fund) of 178,578.07 million Baht or 53% (61 projects), and private investment/PPP of 159,219 million Baht or 47% (16 projects).
Title: Draft outcome document of the 3rd meeting of Joint Committee for Thailand-Hungary Economic Cooperation
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Foreign Affairs:
Approved the draft outcome document of the 3rd meeting of Joint Committee for Thailand-Hungary Economic Cooperation for the meeting held on June 29, 2022
Authorized Deputy Permanent Secretary to Ministry of Foreign Affairs as signatory to the draft outcome document, which will be countersigned by Hungarian Deputy Permanent Secretary to Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade.
Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Thai delegation may proceed without having to resubmit the document to the cabinet.
Gist
The draft outcome document of the 3rd meeting of Joint Committee for Thailand-Hungary Economic Cooperation prescribes outcome of the discussion between the two countries on trade and investment promotion and other economic cooperation, i.e., in energy, science and technology, and agriculture.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/56333