รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met via a video conference on September 7, 2021


วันจันทร์ที่ 13 กันยายน 2564
พิมพ์
The cabinet met via a video conference on September 7, 2021
The cabinet met via a video conference on September 7, 2021
The cabinet met via a video conference on September 7, 2021. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in Nonthaburi province’s Pak Kred district (Ban Mai, Bang Talad, Bang Kleu subdistricts), B.E. …, and draft Royal Decree Determining Areas of Land to be Expropriated for Public Transportation in Nonthaburi province’s Pak Kred district (Ban Mai, Bang Talad, Bang Kleu subdistricts), B.E. …
The cabinet approved 2 Royal Decrees, namely, draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in Nonthaburi province’s Pak Kred district (Ban Mai, Bang Talad, Bang Kleu subdistricts), B.E. …, and draft Royal Decree Determining Areas of Land to be Expropriated for Public Transportation in Nonthaburi province’s Pak Kred district (Ban Mai, Bang Talad, Bang Kleu subdistricts), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Transport.
Gist
The Royal Decree prescribes areas in Nonthaburi province’s Pak Kred district (Ban Mai, Bang Talad, Bang Kleu subdistricts) to be expropriated for the construction of mass transit system (extension of Pink Line: Sri Rach Station-Muangthong Thani section).
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in Bangkok’s Bang Khun Thien district (Samae Dam subdistrict) and Samut Sakhon’s Muang district (Khog Krabue subdistrict) for the construction of Motorway No. 82 (Bang Khun Thien- Ekachai elevated road), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in Bangkok’s Bang Khun Thien district (Samae Dam subdistrict) and Samut Sakhon’s Muang district (Khog Krabue subdistrict) for the construction of Motorway No. 82 (Bang Khun Thien- Ekachai elevated road), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Transport.
Gist
The Royal Decree prescribes areas in Bangkok’s Bang Khun Thien district (Samae Dam subdistrict) and Samut Sakhon’s Muang district (Khog Krabue subdistrict) for the construction of Motorway No. 82 (Bang Khun Thien- Ekachai elevated road).
Draft Ministerial Regulation on establishment of faculties and offices under Ministry of Public Health’s Praboromarajchanok Institute
The cabinet acknowledged the draft Ministerial Regulation on establishment of faculties and offices under Ministry of Public Health’s Praboromarajchanok Institute.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on establishment of faculties and offices under Ministry of Public Health’s Praboromarajchanok Institute prescribes establishment of:
Rector’s Office
Faculty of Nursing
Faculty of Public Health and Allied Health Sciences
Academic Office
Title: 7th Greater Mekong Subregion Economic Coordination (GMS) Summit
The cabinet approved the documents to be adopted at the 7th Greater Mekong Subregion Economic Coordination (GMS) Summit, to be held via a teleconference. The 3 documents will be adopted without signing. The Prime Minister was authorized to adopt the documents, together with other national leaders at the 7thGMS Summit held on September 9, 2021. This is as proposed by Office of National Economic and Social Development Council.
Gist
The 7th Greater Mekong Subregion Economic Coordination (GMS) Summit will be hosted by Cambodia via a videoconference under the overarching theme “GMS: Renewed Strength to Face the Challenges of the New Decade”. Other than the Thai Prime Minister, attending and delivering a statement were leaders of the Kingdom of Cambodia, People’s Republic of China, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Republic of the Union of Myanmar, Socialist Republic of Vietnam, and the ADB president.
The 3 documents to be adopted at the 7th GMS Summit were: 1) the 7th Joint Declaration of the 6 Leaders of the six Greater Mekong Subregional countries; 2) Draft strategic framework for economic cooperation in the Greater Mekong Subregion, B.E. 2030; and 3) Draft rehabilitation and response plan against the impact of COVID-19 pandemic (2021-2023).

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/45759