รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on December 28, 2021


วันอังคารที่ 11 มกราคม 2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on December 28, 2021
The cabinet met on December 28, 2021. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on Amendment of Doping Control Act in Sports (B.E. 2555), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on Amendment of Doping Control Act in Sports (B.E. 2555), B.E. …, as proposed by Office of Council of State.
Gist
The Amendment of Doping Control Act in Sports (B.E. 2555), B.E. … is aimed to be in line with World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA)’s principles, and has been done as a royal decree to speed up the process. Upon the completion of the amendment process, Sports Authority of Thailand will liaise with WADA on the lift of ban including the use of national flag at the international sports events, especially at the Asian Games to be held in People’s Republic of China in 2022.
The amendment has been made on 24 sections of the Doping Control Act in Sports B.E. 2555, related to WADA standards, i.e., definition of terms, restructuring of related committees to ensure operating independence, and penalties.
Title: New Year gifts to the people (Ministry of Foreign Affairs)
The cabinet acknowledged Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ plan for the 2022 New Year gifts to be given to the Thai people. They are:
Free translation service for 19 civil registration documents (e.g., birth certificate, death certificate, house registration, ID card, marriage certificate, etc.)
Passport service during weekends throughout the month of January 2022 (starting January 8, 2022) at Temporary Passport Offices at MBK Center and Central Plaza West Gate.
Exemption of fee for same-Day express passport service, to be provided to 1,000 service recipients (100 persons/day during January 1-15, 2021, except holidays)
Mobile passport service across the country: twice a month throughout the year, altogether 24 times.
Bangkok Mobile Service: The Consular Department, in collaboration with Bangkok Metropolitant Adminsitration (BMA), provides civil registration services to the people throughout January 2022 at the parking lot of the Consular Department.
Title: Signing of MOU on Cooperation under 2021 Mekong - Lancang Cooperation Special Fund (Ministry of Tourism and Sports)
The cabinet approved the drafting and signing of an MOU on Cooperation under 2021 Mekong - Lancang Cooperation Special Fund. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Tourism and Sports may proceed without having to resubmit tot the cabinet. Permanent Secretary to Ministry of Tourism and Sports is authorized as signatory of the MOU. This is as proposed by Ministry of Tourism and Sports.
Gist
The Embassy of People’s Republic of China in Thailand has disclosed the list of 13 projects to be funded under the 2021 Mekong - Lancang Cooperation Special Fund, out of which 1 project is under the responsibility of Ministry of Tourism and Sports: “Mekong Destinations Standards for Sustainable Tourism Development”. The project is aimed to standardize sustainable tourism for tourist attractions in the Mekong Sub-Region, promote cultural conservation and environmental protection through sustainable tourism activities, and enhance capacity of Destination Management Organizations (DMOS).
Title: Signing of MOU on Cooperation under 2021 Mekong - Lancang Cooperation Special Fund (Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives)
The cabinet approved the drafting and signing of an MOU on Cooperation under 2021 Mekong - Lancang Cooperation Special Fund. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives may proceed without having to resubmit tot the cabinet. Permanent Secretary to Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives is authorized as signatory of the MOU. This is as proposed by Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives.
Gist
The Embassy of People’s Republic of China in Thailand has disclosed the list of 13 projects to be funded under the 2021 Mekong - Lancang Cooperation Special Fund, out of which 3 projects are under the responsibility of Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives: 1) Expansion and Development of Forage Seed Trade Cooperation (budget US$347,300); 2) Research for Appropriate Tree-Based Cropping Systems for Highland Area in Northern Thailand (budget US$57,600); and 3) Development of Sustainable Green Manure Seed Community in Mekong Region (budget US$307,000).
Title: Signing of MOU on Cooperation under 2021 Mekong - Lancang Cooperation Special Fund (Ministry of Interior)
The cabinet approved the drafting and signing of an MOU on Cooperation under 2021 Mekong - Lancang Cooperation Special Fund. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Interior may proceed without having to resubmit tot the cabinet. Permanent Secretary to Ministry of Interior is authorized as signatory of the MOU. This is as proposed by Ministry of Interior.
Gist
The Embassy of People’s Republic of China in Thailand has disclosed the list of 13 projects to be funded under the 2021 Mekong - Lancang Cooperation Special Fund, out of which 1 project is under the responsibility of Ministry of Interior: “Integrated Sustainable Development of Quality of Life Based on Sufficiency Economy Philosophy (SEP)” (budget US$406,700).

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/50010