รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on June 21, 2022


วันจันทร์ที่ 27 มิถุนายน 2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on June 21, 2022
The cabinet met on June 21, 2022. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Request for 2nd budget allocation (Government’s contingency fund for emergency) of 2,039.21 million Baht for restoration of infrastructure damaged from flood and disaster in 23 provinces
The cabinet approved the request made by Ministry of Transport on the 2nd budget allocation (Government’s contingency fund for emergency) for restoration of infrastructure damaged from flood and disaster in 23 provinces, for the total amount of 2,039.21 million Baht (Department of Highways: 1,536.30 million Baht, and Department of Rural Roads: 502.91 million Baht).
Gist
The budget will be allocated for 98 infrastructure restoration projects in 23 provinces that were damaged by flood and disaster. The budget of 1,536.30 million Baht allocated to the Department of Highways will cover 73 projects in 20 provinces (2 provinces in the North, 7 in the Northeast, 7 in the Central part of the country, 1 each in the West and the East, and 2 in the South.) The budget of 502.91 million Baht allocated to the Department of Rural Roads will cover 25 projects in 15 provinces (6 in the Northeast, 6 in the Central part of the country, 1 in the West, and 2 in the South.)
Title: National Groundwater Day
The cabinet approved for the 3rd of April each year to be the “National Groundwater Day”, as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment.
Gist
On April 16, 2021, His Majesty King Rama X graciously accepted 15 projects, covering 11 provinces, under his patronage as the “royal initiative projects”. These 15 projects are implemented under the Department of Groundwater Resources’ scheme on “Large-Scale Groundwater Provision Against Drought Disaster” in a bid to mitigate people’s plight as a result of drought disaster. His benevolence is deeply appreciated. On April 3, 2022, His Majesty and Her Majesty the Queen graciously presided over the launch of one of these projects under the scheme on “Large-Scale Groundwater Provision Against Drought Disaster” at Nong Fai sub-district, Lau Kwan district, Kanchanaburi province.
To symbolically acclaim the royal honor of His Majesty King Rama X, it is appropriate to designate April 3 of each year as “National Groundwater Day”.
Title: Resolutions of 14th National Health Assembly (2021)
The cabinet acknowledged the resolutions of the 14th National Health Assembly (NHA) (2021), and assigned concerned agencies to proceed according to the resolutions, and to take into consideration of the suggestions of Ministry of Education, NESDC’s remarks, and comments of the Budget Bureau. This is as proposed by National Health Commission.
Gist
The resolutions made at the 14th NHA in 2021 cover 3 dimensions of execution, namely, 1) promoting sustainable environmental health in the coronavirus disease 2019 crisis (e.g., sustainable environmental management as a result of waste problems, environmental management under the BCG economic model, etc.); 2) promoting fair access to health services for specific populations in times of crisis; and 3) managing participatory communication in the health crisis. This is aimed to promote social participation in propelling operations under the 3 dimensions of execution in a tangible manner.
Title: Nomination of Khon Kaen Geopark as UNESCO Global Geopark
The cabinet approved the nomination of Khon Kaen Geopark as one of UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization) Global Geoparks. Notification will be sent to UNESCO by July 1, 2022, and application must be submitted during October 1- November 30, 2022. National Commission for UNESCO, under Ministry of Education, is assigned as focal point for the nomination of Khon Kaen Geopark as UNESCO Global Geopark. This is as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment.
Title: Joint Statement of 4th Thailand-UK Strategic Dialogue
The cabinet approved in principle the Joint Statement of 4th Thailand-UK Strategic Dialogue, as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
The Joint Statement of 4th Thailand-UK Strategic Dialogue is the outcome document of the 4th Thailand-UK Strategic Dialogue, aiming to express political intent of the two countries in promoting cooperation in various fields of mutual interest, e.g., economic, political, and seucirity cooperation, cooperation in environment, digital and cyber, sciences, technology, innovation, culture, and education, among others.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/56180