รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on May 24, 2022


วันจันทร์ที่ 30 พฤษภาคม 2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on May 24, 2022
The cabinet met on May 24, 2022
The cabinet met on May 24, 2022. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on Establishment of Land Bank Administration Institute (Public Organization) (No. …), B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Royal Decree on Establishment of Land Bank Administration Institute (Public Organization) (No. …), B.E. …, as proposed by the Land Bank Administration Institute (Public Organization). The draft Royal Decree has been scrutinized by Office of Council of State.
Gist
The draft Royal Decree on Establishment of Land Bank Administration Institute (Public Organization) (No. …), B.E. …, prescribes an amendment on the provision regarding dissolution of the Land Bank Administration Institute (Public Organization). The provision is amended from “to be dissolved after June 7, 2022” to “to be dissolved after June 7, 2025”. This is to continue the organization’s mission on providing assistance to farmers and poor people, and ensuring fair and sustainable solution to problems related to productive lands until the establishment of Land Bank or a similar organization is finalized.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on customs checkpoints and border checkpoints (No. …), B.E. … (Don Mueang Airport Customs Office and Nong Khai Customs Checkpoint)
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on customs checkpoints and border checkpoints (No. …), B.E. … (Don Mueang Airport Customs Office and Nong Khai Customs Checkpoint), as proposed by Ministry of Finance.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on customs checkpoints and border checkpoints (No. …), B.E. … (Don Mueang Airport Customs Office and Nong Khai Customs Checkpoint) prescribes Don Mueang Airport as a customs checkpoint under the authority of Don Mueang Airport Customs Office, and Nong Khai Customs Checkpoint and Nong Khai Train Station as “At Nong Khai” customs zone under the authority of Nong Khai Customs Checkpoint.
Title: Request for approval to use watershed area class 1A for construction of Thailand-China Collaboration Project: Development of Bangkok- Nong Khai High-Speed Railway Project (1st Phase- Bangkok- Nakhon Ratchasima)
The cabinet approved the use of watershed area class 1A for construction of Thailand-China Collaboration Project: Development of Bangkok- Nong Khai High-Speed Railway Project (1st Phase- Bangkok- Nakhon Ratchasima), as proposed by Ministry of Transport. The project’s EIA has been approved by the National Environment Board.
Gist
Ministry of Transport requested for the cabinet’s approval to use watershed area class 1A for construction of a tunnel under the Thailand-China Collaboration Project: Development of Bangkok- Nong Khai High-Speed Railway Project (1st Phase- Bangkok- Nakhon Ratchasima). The tunnel, with its length of 5,270 meters, will cross watershed area class 1A in Saraburi and Nakhon Ratchasima provinces.
Title: 2021 Performance Report of  Equitable Education Fund (EEF)
The cabinet acknowledged the 2021 annual report of the Equitable Education Fund (EEF), which prescribes accomplishments of the following programs/projects:
1) Immediate measures during the spread of COVID-19 pandemic: assisting 290,000 students from the very low-income families who are in the education transition (kindergarten level 3/grade 6/grade 9), and have faced high risk for being cut out of formal educational system during the spread of COVID-19.
2) Area-based management for equitable education: systematizing provincial and local assistance provided to out-of-school children in respective localities
3) Skill development for community-based workforces: e.g., professional and social skill development of 8,561 working-age population who are poor and underprivileged
4) Development of teachers’ effectiveness and out-of-school children: 36,268 out-of-school children and 3,471 teachers have been assisted under the program
5) Conditional subsidy provision to extremely poor students: subsidies provision to 1,244,591 students who met the criteria on school attendance and proper childhood development
6) Vocational Innovation Scholarships: promoting vocational education opportunity to poor and underprivileged students
7) True Potential Scholarships: granting at most 9 years of full scholarships from the Bachelor degree to Ph.D. level in any discipline to students who are capable of developing their potential through education.
8) “Kru Rak Thin” Homegrown Teacher Scholarships: offering scholarships to 627 students from some of Thailand’s disadvantaged villages and regions to study at the Faculty of Teacher Education in universities. This is for them to become local teachers, and help develop 600 schools in the remote areas.
9) Development of quality and efficiency of teachers and schools: 727 participating schools have been systematically developed, which enhances education opportunity of over 190,000 students.
10) Educational research and innovation: for equitable education.
Title: Extension of Emergency Decree nationwide
The cabinet approved extension of the Emergency Decree nationwide for another 2 months during June 1- July 31, 2022, as proposed by the National Security Council.
Gist
The Center for COVID-19 Situation Administration, in its meeting on May 19, 2022, agreed on the resolution to extend the Emergency Decree nationwide for another 2 months since the COVID-19 situation in Thailand has yet to pass the endemic assessment criteria set by public health authority. Extension of the Emergency Decree nationwide will also help concerned authorities to strictly and efficiently control the spread of the disease. This is the 18th extension of the Emergency Decree nationwide as a result of the COVID-19 situation.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/55157