รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on May 10, 2022


วันอังคารที่ 17 พฤษภาคม 2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on May 10, 2022
The cabinet met on May 10, 2022
The cabinet met on May 10, 2022. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on Establishment of Land Bank Administration Institute (Public Organization) (No. …), B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Royal Decree on Establishment of Land Bank Administration Institute (Public Organization) (No. …), B.E. …, as proposed by the Land Bank Administration Institute (Public Organization). The draft Royal Decree shall be forwarded to the Office of Council of State for further deliberation.
Gist
The draft Royal Decree on Establishment of Land Bank Administration Institute (Public Organization) (No. …), B.E. …, prescribes an amendment on the provision regarding dissolution of the Land Bank Administration Institute (Public Organization). The amendment is made to extend the dissolution process, and the organization shall be dissolved 3 years after the date June 7, 2022.
Title: Draft Finance Ministerial Announcement on Exemption Duty, Decreasing and Increasing Customs Duty Tariff under the Commitment in Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organization (No. …)
The cabinet approved the draft Finance Ministerial Announcement on Exemption Duty, Decreasing and Increasing Customs Duty Tariff under the Commitment in Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organization (No. …), as proposed by Ministry of Finance.
Gist
The Finance Ministerial Announcement on Exemption Duty, Decreasing and Increasing Customs Duty Tariff under the Commitment in Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organization (No. …), drafted by Ministry of Finance (the Customs Department), prescribes exemption of duty, decreasing and increasing customs duty tariff of maize under the commitment in Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organization (tariff item 1005.90.99, code: 71) from 20% to 0% during May and July 2022. The reasons behind this are to solve hike of feeds cost, and alleviate burdens of farmers and all concerned sectors.
Title: Request for approval for draft “Joint Vision Statement” of the 2nd ASEAN-U.S. Special Summit
The cabinet approved the draft “Joint Vision Statement” of the 2nd ASEAN-U.S. Special Summit. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. The Prime Minister or a representative is authorized to adopt the Joint Vision Statement. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
The draft Joint Vision Statement of the 2nd ASEAN-U.S. Special Summit outlines the joint intent to promote relations and cooperation toward comprehensive strategic partnership, create the region’s peaceful environment, and support ASEAN centrality. Eight Areas of cooperation and priorities are stipulated in the Joint Vision Statement.
Title: Draft Joint Statement of 25th ASEAN+3 Finance Ministers’ and Central Bank Governors’ Meeting (AFMGM+3)
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Joint Statement of 25th ASEAN+3 Finance Ministers’ and Central Bank Governors’ Meeting (AFMGM+3). Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Finance may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Finance or a representative is authorized to adopt the Joint Statement. This is as proposed by Ministry of Finance.
Gist
The draft Joint Statement of 25th ASEAN+3 Finance Ministers’ and Central Bank Governors’ Meeting (AFMGM+3) prescribes the joint intent to promote cooperation in various areas, i.e., maintaining regional economic and financial stability to support inclusive and sustainable growth, enhancing efficiency of ASEAN+3 cooperation, and setting future direction of ASEAN+3 financial cooperation.
The AFMGM+3 will be cohosted by Cambodia and China PRC on May 12, 2022 via a teleconference.
Title: Draft Joint Statement on Aviation Rehabilitation and Sustainability, and Inclusive Innovation
The cabinet approved the draft Joint Statement on Aviation Rehabilitation and Sustainability, and Inclusive Innovation. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, the Thai delegation may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Deputy Prime Minister Anutin Charnvirakul or Minister of Transport, or a representative is authorized to adopt the Joint Statement. This is as proposed by Ministry of Transport.
Gist
The draft Joint Statement on Aviation Rehabilitation and Sustainability, and Inclusive Innovation prescribes an important role of the world’s aviation leaders to be part of the global economic development. International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO)’s standard and practices shall be propelled for sustainable rehabilitation of aviation sector, taking into account environmental friendliness, cost effectiveness, and public health measures. The draft Joint Statement also prescribes developing personnel in aviation sector, enhancing aviation access of people with disabilities, and empowering women in aviation sector.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/54619