รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on March 22, 2022


วันจันทร์ที่ 28 มีนาคม 2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on March 22, 2022
The cabinet met on March 22, 2022
The cabinet met on March 22, 2022. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Bangkok's Jatujak, Lak Si, and Don Muang districts; Pathum Thani's Muang, Thanyaburi, Lam Lukka, Khlong Luang, and Sam Khok districts; Ayutthaya's Bang Pa-in, Phra Nakhon Si Ayutthaya, Uthai, and Phashi districts; Saraburi's Nong Saeng, Sao Hai, Muang, Kaeng Khoi, and Muak Lek districts; and Nakhon Ratchasima's Pak Chong, Si Khiew, Soong Noen, and Muang districts for the development of the 1st Phase (route Bangkok- Nakhon Ratchasima) of Thai-Sino high-speed train project: Bangkok- Nong Khai, B.E. ...
The cabinet approved the approved the draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Bangkok's Jatujak, Lak Si, and Don Muang districts; Pathum Thani's Muang, Thanyaburi, Lam Lukka, Khlong Luang, and Sam Khok districts; Ayutthaya's Bang Pa-in, Phra Nakhon Si Ayutthaya, Uthai, and Phashi districts; Saraburi's Nong Saeng, Sao Hai, Muang, Kaeng Khoi, and Muak Lek districts; and Nakhon Ratchasima's Pak Chong, Si Khiew, Soong Noen, and Muang districts for the development of the 1st Phase (route Bangkok- Nakhon Ratchasima) of Thai-Sino high-speed train project: Bangkok- Nong Khai, B.E. ..., as proposed by Ministry of Transport. Ministry of Transport is to take the opinions of Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, and Office of National Economic and Social Development Council into consideration.
Gist
The draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Bangkok's Jatujak, Lak Si, and Don Muang districts; Pathum Thani's Muang, Thanyaburi, Lam Lukka, Khlong Luang, and Sam Khok districts; Ayutthaya's Bang Pa-in, Phra Nakhon Si Ayutthaya, Uthai, and Phashi districts; Saraburi's Nong Saeng, Sao Hai, Muang, Kaeng Khoi, and Muak Lek districts; and Nakhon Ratchasima's Pak Chong, Si Khiew, Soong Noen, and Muang districts for the development of the 1st Phase (route Bangkok- Nakhon Ratchasima) of Thai-Sino high-speed train project: Bangkok- Nong Khai, B.E. ..., prescribes respective areas in Bangkok, Pathum Thani, Ayutthaya, Saraburi, and Nakhon Ratchasima, for the total of 667 rai in land and 1,130 buildings, to be expropriated for the construction of dual-track high speed railway (the distance of 253km), which comprises 4 stations and a large-scale maintenance and control center. Expropriation expense is estimated by the State Railway of Thailand at 179,412.21 million Baht (for dismantling, relocation, expropriation, contracts, and civil works).
Title: Draft Commerce Ministerial Announcement on Revocation of Commerce Ministerial Announcement on Export of Saltwater Aquarium Fish, B.E. 2549, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Commerce Ministerial Announcement on Revocation of Commerce Ministerial Announcement on Export of Saltwater Aquarium Fish, B.E. 2549, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministryof Commerce.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Announcement prescribes revocation of Commerce Ministerial Announcement on Export of Saltwater Aquarium Fish, dated March 17, 2006. Since the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives Ministerial Announcement on export and import ban of aquatic animals, entered into force on August 16, 2021, has covered control of saltwater aquarium fish export, the draft Commerce Ministerial Announcement on Revocation of Commerce Ministerial Announcement on Export of Saltwater Aquarium Fish, B.E. 2549, B.E. … to reduce law enforcement redundancy and streamline public sector procedure.
Title: Draft Commerce Ministerial Announcement on Revocation of Commerce Ministerial Announcement on Export of Mother of Pearl and related products (No. 46), B.E. 2549, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Commerce Ministerial Announcement on Revocation of Commerce Ministerial Announcement on Export of Mother of Pearl and related products (No. 46), B.E. 2531, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministryof Commerce.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Announcement prescribes revocation of Commerce Ministerial Announcement on Export of Mother of Pearl and related products (No. 46), dated June 9, 1988. Since the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives Ministerial Announcement on export and import ban of aquatic animals, entered into force on August 16, 2021, has covered control of export of mother of pearl and freshwater clams, the draft Commerce Ministerial Announcement on Revocation of Commerce Ministerial Announcement on Export of Mother of Pearl and related products, B.E. 1988 to reduce law enforcement redundancy and streamline public sector procedure.
Title: Request for approval on extension of disbursement period of the Development Policy Loan (DPL) for the new GFMIS Thai scheme
The cabinet approved the proposal made by Ministry of Finance on the 6-month extension of disbursement period of the Development Policy Loan (DPL) for the New Government Fiscal Management Information System Thai (New GFMIS Thai) scheme from March 2022 to September 2022.
Gist
Disbursement period of Office of Permanent Secretary to Ministry of Finance’s New Government Fiscal Management Information System Thai (New GFMIS Thai) scheme has been extended once on September 21, 2021. However, the budget remains to be disbursed is 163.50 million Baht due to the fact that New GFMIS Thai was not able to be launched as planned (a number of defects found). The request for an extension is made to ensure that Office of Permanent Secretary to Ministry of Finance can accurately and thoroughly test the New GFMIS Thai system.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/52992