รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on April 19, 2022


วันจันทร์ที่ 25 เมษายน 2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on April 19, 2022
The cabinet met on April 19, 2022. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation prescribing state agencies eligible for the request of administration actions from judicial officers (No. …), B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation prescribing state agency eligible for the request of administration actions from judicial officers (No. …), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Finance.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation prescribes 16 agencies under Ministry of Finance as state agencies eligible for the request of administration actions from judicial officers in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, B.E. 2539 (1996).
The 16 agencies are: the Bank of Thailand, Government Pension Fund, National Savings Fund, Life Insurance Fund, General Insurance Fund, Office of Securities and Exchange Commission, Student Loan Fund, Neighbouring Countries Economic Development Cooperation Agency, Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives, Export–Import Bank of Thailand, Thai Credit Guarantee Corportation, Government Housing Bank, The Government Lottery Office, Tobacco Authority of Thailand, Deposit Protection Agency, and Office of Insurance Commission
Title: Grant-in-Aid under Programme for COVID-19 Crisis Response Emergency Support
The cabinet approved the draft Exchange of Notes, Agreed Minutes on Procedural Details, Record of Discussions and Note Verbale for the Grant-in-Aid under Programme for COVID-19 Crisis Response Emergency Support from the Japanese Government. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Director-General of Thailand International Cooperation Agency is authorized as signatory of the Exchange of Notes, Agreed Minutes on Procedural Details, Record of Discussions. Ministry of Public Health is also assigned to prepare the Note Verbale to be sent to the Embassy of Japan in Bangkok. Ministry of Foreign Affairs is to issue the Full Powers to the Director-General of Thailand International Cooperation Agency. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
The Embassy of Japan in Bangkok has made a request for the Thai counterpart to sign related documents to officially accept the Grant-in-Aid under the Programme for COVID-19 Crisis Response Emergency Support for the Japanese Government to donate medical equipment and supplies, and transfer related technologies.
The documents to be signed include: 1) The Exchange of Notes; 2) Agreed Minutes on Procedural Details; 3) Record of Discussions; and 4) Note Verbale.
Title: Thailand’s position for the 4th Thailand-Vietnam Joint Trade Committee Meeting
The cabinet approved Thailand’s position for the 4th Thailand-Vietnam Joint Trade Committee Meeting to be referred to by the Thai delegation, chaired by Minister of Commerce or a representative, in the 4th JTC meeting with Vietnam.
Gist
The 4th Thailand-Vietnam Joint Trade Committee Meeting will be hosted by Thailand during April 19-20, 2022 in Bangkok. Ministry of Commerce has proposed issues to be put forward at the 4th Thailand-Vietnam JTC as follows:
Bilateral trade cooperation: trade-related targets, trade facilitation, agriculture, trade remedies, transport and logistics connectivity
Investment cooperation and other economic cooperation: investment, banking, energy, labor, intellectual properties, and sub-regional/regional/multilateral cooperation frameworks
Other related activities
Title: Request for approval of Kumamoto Declaration for 4th Asia-Pacific Water Summit: 4th APWS
The cabinet approved the draft Kumamoto Declaration, which is the outcome document of the 4th Asia-Pacific Water Summit (4th APWS). Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Office of The National Water Resources may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. The Prime Minister or a representative is authorized to adopt the Kumamoto Declaration at the 4th APWS, to be held during April 23-24, 2022 via a videoconference.
Gist
The 4th APWS is held during April 23-24, 2022 in Kumamoto, Japan, and is attended, both in person and via a videoconference, by national leaders, high-level representatives, and chiefs of international organizations in the Asia-Pacific region. The Theme of the summit is “Water for Sustainable Development – Best Practices and the Next Generation”.
Kumamoto Declaration elaborates 4 key cooperation agendas: 1) challenges and post-COVID-19 rehabilitation; 2) transformation to quality-based society; 3) expediting operations; and 4) outcome of the 4th APWS to be discussed at the global-level meetings, i.e., Midterm Review of the Water Action Decade, High - level political Forum, Global Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction, UN Climate Change Conference, G7 Summit, and G20 Summit.
Title: Joint Statement of the Third Meeting of BIMSTEC Ministers on Energy
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Energy:
Approved the draft Joint Statement of the Third Meeting of BIMSTEC Ministers on Energy and its translation
Authorized Minister of Energy or a representative to adopt the joint statement together with ministers of energy of other member countries
Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Energy may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet and inform the cabinet later of the change.
Gist
The Joint Statement of the Third Meeting of BIMSTEC Ministers on Energy prescribes joint commitment of BIMSTEC member countries to promote regional energy security, and to underscore urgency in promoting energy cooperation. Member countries also agreed to set up the BIMSTEC Grid Interconnection Coordination Committee (BGICC), and expedite the negotiation on issues related to an establishment of BIMSTEC Energy Center.
The Third Meeting of BIMSTEC Ministers on Energy will be hosted by Nepal on April 20, 2022.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/53871