รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on March 29, 2022


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 31 มีนาคม 2565
The cabinet met on March 29, 2022
The cabinet met on March 29, 2022
The cabinet met on March 29, 2022. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code on Businesses Exempted from Specific Business Tax (No. …) B.E. … (Exemption of specific business tax for Financial Institutions Development Fund (FIDF))
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code on Businesses Exempted from Specific Business Tax (No. …) B.E. … (Exemption of specific business tax for Financial Institutions Development Fund (FIDF)), as proposed by Ministry of Finance.
Gist
The draft Royal Decree prescribes exemption of specific business tax for Financial Institutions Development Fund (FIDF).
Title: Draft Royal Decree on exemption of toll fee for Motorway No. 7 and No. 9 for a specified period (No. …) B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on exemption of toll fee for Motorway No. 7 and No. 9 for a specified period (No. …) B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Transport.
Gist
The draft Royal Decree prescribes exemption of toll fee for Motorway No. 7 (Bangkok-Pattayasection), and No. 9 (Kanchanaphisek Rd.: PhraPradaeng- Bang Khae section and Pa-in- Bang Phli section) from 0001hrs of April 12, 2022 to 2400hrs of April 18, 2022. This is to facilitate people’s traveling during the Songkran holidays.
Title: Nomination of Phu Kradueng National Park and Nam Nao National Park’s PhuKhiew Wildlife Sanctuary as ASEAN Heritage Parks (AHP)
The cabinet approved the nomination of PhuKradueng National Park and Nam Nao National Park’s Phu Khiew Wildlife Sanctuary as ASEAN Heritage Parks (AHP), as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment.
Gist
According to Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, both Phu Kradueng National Park in Loei province, and Nam Nao National Park’s Phu Khiew Wildlife Sanctuary in Phetchabunprovince are unique in their biodiversity and ecosystems, wilderness and outstanding values,and meets the criteria for ASEAN Heritage Parks.
At present, there are 7 protected areas in Thailand that are designated ASEAN Heritage Parks:  Khao Yai National Park, Tarutao National Marine Park, Ao Phang Nga National Park, SurinIslands and Similan Islands, Kaeng Krachan National Park, Hat Chao Mai National Park and Mu Ko Libong islands, Mu Ko Ang Thong National Park, and Khao Sok National Park.
​​

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/53157