รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on December 21, 2021


วันจันทร์ที่ 27 ธันวาคม 2564
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on December 21, 2021
The cabinet met on December 21, 2021
The cabinet met on December 21, 2021. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Request for approval on the signing of MOU between Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives of the Kingdom of Thailand and Brazil’s Department of Agriculture, Livestock and Food Supply on Agricultural Cooperation
The cabinet approved the signing of MOU between Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives of the Kingdom of Thailand and Brazil’s Department of Agriculture, Livestock and Food Supply on Agricultural Cooperation. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Agriculture and Cooperatives or a representative is authorized as signatory of the MOU.
Gist
The MOU between Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives of the Kingdom of Thailand and Brazil’s Department of Agriculture, Livestock and Food Supply on Agricultural Cooperation is aimed for an exchange of technology and information, training, and technical cooperation in agriculture.
The MOU will take effect for 5 years from the signing date onward, and is subject to a 5-year extension through an advance request from either side 6 months in advance.
Title: Outcome of the 28th APEC Finance Ministers’ Meeting (APEC FMM)
The cabinet acknowledged the proposal made by Ministry of Finance on the outcome of the 28th APEC Finance Ministers’ Meeting (APEC FMM) and the Joint Statement of the 28th APEC Finance Ministers’ Meeting, which was held on October 22, 2021 via a teleconference.
The agendas discussed at the meeting include economic recovery, response to COVID-19 for sustainable and inclusive recovery, and application of fiscal policy and budget management to address challenges. The meeting also adopted Strategy for Implementation of the Cebu Action Plan. As for APEC Finance Minister’s Process (APEC FMP), Thailand (Minister of Finance) committed to take over New Zealand’s chairmanship through prioritization of post-COVID-19 recovery of the APEC region toward sustainable digital and monetary society, in line with the 2040 Putra Jaya Vision.
Title: Draft Memorandum Of Understanding on Cooperation for Carbon Neutrality between Eastern Economic Corridor Office and Osaka City Government
The cabinet approved the draft Memorandum Of Understanding on Cooperation for Carbon Neutrality to drive forward Thailand 4.0 between Eastern Economic Corridor Office (EECO) and Osaka City Government. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, EECO may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. EECO Director-General is authorized as signatory of the MOU. This is as proposed by EECO.
Gist
The draft Memorandum Of Understanding on Cooperation for Carbon Neutrality to drive forward Thailand 4.0 between Eastern Economic Corridor Office (EECO) and Osaka City Government is aimed to develop carbon neutrality in the EEC through exchange of knowledge and information, and policy discussion between management of the two parties. The MOU takes effect from the date of signing until March 31, 2025.
Title: Thai Government’s official political pledge on compliance with item 3.2 of EU List of Non-cooperative Jurisdictions for Tax Purposes (EU List)
The cabinet approved a signed statement to be submitted to CoCG president by Ministry of Finance as the Thai Government’s official political pledge on compliance with item 3.2 of EU List of Non-cooperative Jurisdictions for Tax Purposes (EU List).
Gist
Submission of the Thai Government’s official political pledge on compliance with item 3.2 of EU List of Non-cooperative Jurisdictions for Tax Purposes (EU List) is to affirm Thailand’s compliance and to ensure that Thailand will not be added to the EU List in February 2022.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/49929