รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on March 8, 2022


วันจันทร์ที่ 14 มีนาคม 2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on March 8, 2022
The cabinet met on March 8, 2022
The cabinet met on March 8, 2022. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Revenue Taxes (No. …) B.E. … (Tax measure to promote startup funding)
The cabinet approved in principle the Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Revenue Taxes (No. …) B.E. … (Tax measure to promote startup funding), as proposed by Ministry of Finance.
Gist
The Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Revenue Taxes (No. …) B.E. … (Tax measure to promote startup funding) prescribes revision of tax privileges for funding of Startups according to types of funding (direct funding by persons or juristic persons/ Corporate Venture Capital / Private Equity Trust), that is, an exemption from personal income tax and corporate income tax on profits made from the transfer of startup shares and investment trust units. The aim is to encourage more funding of startups, which will benefit national economic growth as a whole.
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land readjustment in Chao Tha and Dong Ling sub-districts, Kamalasai district, Kalasin province, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Royal Decree on land readjustment in Chao Tha and Dong Ling sub-districts, Kamalasai district, Kalasin province, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives.
Gist
The draft Royal Decree on land readjustment in Chao Tha and Dong Ling sub-districts, Kamalasai district, Kalasin province, B.E. … prescribes scope of land to be readjusted in Chao Tha and Dong Ling sub-districts, Kamalasai district, Kalasin province for agricultural purpose. Readjusted land will be benefited from the irrigation system and have access to public utilities, thereby, promoting the country’s agriculture, and increase of farmers’ revenues.
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Lampang province (Phra Bat and Pichai subdistricts, Muang district), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Lampang province (Phra Bat and Pichai subdistricts, Muang district), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Transport.
Gist
The Royal Decree prescribes areas in Lampang province (Phra Bat and Pichai subdistricts, Muang district) to be expropriated for the construction of National Highway 127 (Eastern Lampang Bypass).
Title: Request for subsidy for SEAMEO Regional Centre for Archaeology and Fine Arts (SEAMEO SPAFA) under the 8th Five-Year Plan (SEAMEO SPAFA’s fiscal years of 2022-2023 to 2026-2027)
The cabinet acknowledged and approved the following proposals of Ministry of Education:
Acknowledged performance report of the SEAMEO Regional Centre for Archaeology and Fine Arts (SEAMEO SPAFA) under the 7th Five-Year Plan (SEAMEO SPAFA’s fiscal years of 2017-2018 to 2020-2021)
Approved the budget to be used as subsidy for SEAMEO SPAFA under the 8th Five-Year Plan (SEAMEO SPAFA’s fiscal years of 2022-2023 to 2026-2027) for the total amount of 125.55 million Baht
Gist
Under SEAMEO SPAFA’s 8th Five-Year Plan, 31 projects/activities will be implemented under the vision “Strengthening SEAMEO SPAFA’s role on human capital development in archeology and fine arts in the 21st century”.
Title: Request for approval on the Joint Declaration of the Abu Dhabi Dialogue Sixth Consultation
The cabinet approved the Joint Declaration of the Abu Dhabi Dialogue Sixth Consultation. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Labor may proceed and inform the cabinet later of the amendment. This is as proposed by Ministry of Labor.
Gist
The Abu Dhabi Dialogue Sixth Consultation has been held during October 25-29, 2021 in Dubai, UAE via a teleconference. This was the meeting between 12 Asian countries of labor origins and 7 Middle Eastern countries of labor destinations. ADD is a platform to facilitate regional cooperation on contractual labor mobility, and to share related experiences and learning, as well as to build capacity for effective matching of labour demand and supply. The Joint Declaration prescribes recommendations and key future cooperations.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/52507