รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on October 12, 2021


วันอาทิตย์ที่ 17 ตุลาคม 2564
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on October 12, 2021
The cabinet met on October 12, 2021
The cabinet met on October 12, 2021. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in Pathum Thani’s Samkhog district (Khlong Kwai, Bang Toey, Samkhog, Ban Pathum, and Chiang Rak Yai subdistricts), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in Pathum Thani’s Samkhog district (Khlong Kwai, Bang Toey, Samkhog, Ban Pathum, and Chiang Rak Yai subdistricts), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Transport.
Gist
The Royal Decree prescribes areas in Pathum Thani’s Samkhog district (Khlong Kwai, Bang Toey, Samkhog, Ban Pathum, and Chiang Rak Yai subdistricts) to be expropriated for the construction of Bang Toey- Ban Phrao section of the Highway No. 3214 (Bang Toey- Khlong Jed) in Pathum Thani.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Customs Checkpoints and Border Checkpoints (No. …), B.E. … (Nakhon Phanom Customs Checkpoint)
The cabinet approved the draft Ministerial Regulation on Customs Checkpoints and Border Checkpoints (No. …), B.E. … (Nakhon Phanom Customs Checkpoint) as proposed by Ministry of Finance.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Customs Checkpoints and Border Checkpoints (No. …), B.E. … (Nakhon Phanom Customs Checkpoint) prescribes new location of Nakhon Phanom Customs Checkpoint at No. 11, Moo 11, Art Samart subdistrict, Muang district, Nakhon Phanom province.
Title: Draft Royal Decree on convocation of second ordinary session of the National Assembly, B.E. …
The Cabinet approved the Draft Royal Decree on convocation of the second legislative ordinary session of the National Assembly, B.E. …, as proposed by the Cabinet Secretariat.
According to Section 121 of the Constitution of the Kingdom of Thailand, each year there shall be two ordinary sessions of the National Assembly, each of which shall last 120 days. The day on which the first sitting is held shall be considered the commencement date of the first annual ordinary session, and the commencement date of the second annual ordinary session shall be fixed by the House of Representatives.
In light of the above, the convocation and prorogation dates of the National Assembly are set as follows:
Year
First annual ordinary session (B.E.)
Second annual ordinary session (B.E.)
1
22 May 2562 – 18 September 2562
1 November 2562 – 28 February 2563
2
22 May 2563 – 18 September 2563
1 November 2563 – 28 February 2564
3
22 May 2564 – 18 September 2564
1 November 2564 – 28 February 2565
4
22 May 2565 – 18 September 2565
1 November 2565 – 28 February 2566
It is, therefore, appropriate for the second annual ordinary session of the National Assembly to be convoked from November 1, 2021 (2564) onward.
Title: ASEAN Joint Statement on Climate Change to the 26th Session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC COP26)
The cabinet approved the draft ASEAN Joint Statement on Climate Change to the 26th Session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC COP26). Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Office of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy and Planning may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Natural Resources and Environment or a representative is authorized to perform ad-referendum endorsement of the draft ASEAN Joint Statement together with other ASEAN Environment ministers, or endorse the Joint Statement at the 16th ASEAN Environment Ministers’ Meeting as appropriate. The Prime Minister or a representative is also authorized to adopt the draft ASEAN Joint Statement at the 38th ASEAN Summit. This is as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment.
Gist
The draft ASEAN Joint Statement on Climate Change to the 26th Session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC COP26) demonstrates ASEAN’s commitment under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement on the basis of Common but Differentiated Responsibilities and Respective Capabilities, and Nationally Determined Contribution (NDC).
Title: ASEAN Gender Mainstreaming Strategic Framework 2021 – 2025
The cabinet approved the ASEAN Gender Mainstreaming Strategic Framework 2021 – 2025. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Social Development and Human Security may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Social Development and Human Security, as Thailand’s Minister responsible for gender equality and women empowerment under the ASEAN framework, is assigned to notify the ASEAN Secretariat on Thailand’s approval of the ASEAN Gender Mainstreaming Strategic Framework 2021 – 2025. This is as proposed by Ministry of Social Development and Human Security.
Gist
ASEAN Committee on Women (ACW), in collaboration with the ASEAN Commission on the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Women and Children (ACWC) has developed ASEAN Gender Mainstreaming Strategic Framework 2021 – 2025 to set the direction on integrative implementation of the whole-of-ASEAN’s gender-related issues. This is in order to promote gender equality, and women engagement and empowerment.
Title: Adoption of ASEAN Collaboration Framework towards Strengthening Evidence-Based MSME Policies
The cabinet approved the proposal of the Office of SMEs Promotion (OSMEP) to authorize Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Commerce, as member of the AEC Council, or a representative to adopt ASEAN Collaboration Framework towards Strengthening Evidence-Based MSME Policies.
Gist
The ASEAN Collaboration Framework towards Strengthening Evidence-Based MSME Policies, to be adopted at the AEC Council meeting on October 18, 2021, prescribes objectives, scopes, and operation plan for compilation of data related to MSME, both at the national and regional levels. The document has earlier been approved by the ASEAN Coordinating Committee on Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprise (ACCMSME) on September 27, 2021.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/47082