รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met via a video conference on June 29, 2021


วันอังคารที่ 29 มิถุนายน 2564
พิมพ์
The cabinet met via a video conference on June 29, 2021
The cabinet met via a video conference on June 29, 2021
The cabinet met via a video conference on June 29, 2021. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Revocation of cabinet’s resolution regarding special holiday on July 27, 2021
The cabinet approved the revocation of cabinet’s resolution regarding special holiday on July 27, 2021, as proposed by …
Gist
In light of the current situation where strict public healthcare and other measures have to be implemented to control spread of COVID-19 pandemic, including minimizing mobility of people, and seeking public cooperation to refrain from cross-province traveling, the cabinet approved the revocation of cabinet’s resolution, dated December 29, 2021, regarding special holiday on July 27, 2021.
Title: Progress on the Regional Innovation Center (RIC)
The cabinet acknowledged the proposal made by Office of National Economic and Social Development Council on the progress of cooperation between the Thai Government and United Nations Development Program (UNDP) on the operation of Regional Innovation Center (RIC).
Gist
The objective of the Regional Innovation Center (RIC) is to spearhead institutionalization of the new way of solving development issues, provide a safe space to test development solutions through portfolios of policy experiments, and innovative culture that would help UNDP, governments and other partners be on the front foot of spotting, understanding and integrating new development approaches into their work. The progress reported include enhancing competitiveness of policy makers, building and promoting a network of innovators and policy makers, and developing processes and spaces for policy innovation development.
Title: Draft Memorandum of Understanding on Digital Economic Cooperation between Ministry of Digital Economy and Society of the Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Communications and Information of the Republic of Singapore
The cabinet approved the signing of the MOU on Digital Economic Cooperation between Ministry of Digital Economy and Society of the Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Communications and Information of the Republic of Singapore. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against the principle approved by the cabinet, Ministry of Digital Economy and Society may proceed and inform the cabinet later of the amendment. Minister of Digital Economy and Society or a representative is authorized as signatory of the MOU. This is as proposed by Ministry of Digital Economy and Society.
Gist
Areas of cooperation under the Memorandum of Understanding on Digital Economic Cooperation between Ministry of Digital Economy and Society of the Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Communications and Information of the Republic of Singapore include: 1) Digital Connectivity, 2) Data, 3) Tech Talent and Manpower, 4) Emerging Technologies, 5) Smart City and Estates, 6) Cyber Security, and 7) others.
Title: Draft outcome document for Water Dialogues for Results Bonn 2021: Accelerating Cross – Sectoral SDG 6 Implementation (High-Level Conference)
The cabinet approved the political document “From Dialogues to Results – Key messages for Accelerating Cross - Sectoral SDG 6 Implementation”. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against the principle approved by the cabinet, Office of National Water Resource (ONWR) may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. ONWR is also authorized to adopt the political document on behalf of Thailand. Deputy Prime Minister Gen. Prawit Wongsuwon, who oversees ONWR, or a miniter-level representative, is assigned to deliver a keynote speech at the Water Dialogues for Results Bonn 2021: Accelerating Cross – Sectoral SDG 6 Implementation.
Gist
The political document “From Dialogues to Results – Key messages for Accelerating Cross - Sectoral SDG 6 Implementation” demonstrates political commitment of participants of Water Dialogues for Results Bonn 2021 to expedite related implementations to achieve the SDG on water resources in 5 aspects, namely, funding, information, capacity, innovation, and good governmance.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/43252