รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met via a video conference on June 22, 2021


วันอังคารที่ 29 มิถุนายน 2564
พิมพ์
The cabinet met via a video conference on June 22, 2021
The cabinet met via a video conference on June 22, 2021
The cabinet met via a video conference on June 22, 2021. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Revenue Taxes (No. …) B.E. … (Corporate tax exemption for the Stock Exchange of Thailand for financial support received from Capital Market Development Fund)
The cabinet approved the Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Revenue Taxes (No. …) B.E. … (Corporate tax exemption for the Stock Exchange of Thailand for financial support received from Capital Market Development Fund), as proposed by Ministry of Finance.
Gist
In a bid to boost confidence on Thailand’s capital market, and promote stability, security, and competitiveness of Thailand’s capital market, Ministry of Finance proposed the Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Revenue Taxes (No. …) B.E. … (Corporate tax exemption for the Stock Exchange of Thailand for financial support received from Capital Market Development Fund). Under the Royal Decree, the Stock Exchange of Thailand’s corporate tax on financial support received from Capital Market Development Fund from January 1, 2021 onward, will be exempted.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for retreaded pneumatic tyres for commercial vehicles and trailers, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for retreaded pneumatic tyres for commercial vehicles and trailers, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for retreaded pneumatic tyres for commercial vehicles and trailers, B.E. …, prescribes Thai Industrial Standard for retreaded pneumatic tyres for commercial vehicles and trailers under TIS 2979-2562 (2019), in accordance with the Ministerial Announcement No. 5471 (B.E. 2562) issued under the Industrial Product Standards Act B.E. 2511. The draft Regulation will take effect 180 days after being published in the Royal Gazette. The draft Ministerial Regulation would help enhance competitiveness of Thai retreaded pneumatic tyre entrepreneurs, prevent the import of sub-standard retreaded pneumatic tyres into the country, and ensure public confidence and safety.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for Toys, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for Toys, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for toys, B.E. …, prescribes Thai Industrial Standard for toys under TIS 685 (No.1)-2562 (2019), in accordance with the Ministerial Announcement No. 6167 (B.E. 2564) issued under the Industrial Product Standards Act B.E. 2511, to ensure quality and safety standard of toys. The draft Regulation will take effect 180 days after being published in the Royal Gazette.
Title: Draft Outcome Papers of the Asia and Pacific High-Level Conference on Belt and Road Cooperation
The cabinet approved the draft Outcome Papers of the Asia and Pacific High-Level Conference on Belt and Road Cooperation. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs is authorized as head of the Thai delegation to attend the Asia and Pacific High-Level Conference on Belt and Road Cooperation held on June 23, 2021. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
The approved Outcome Papers of the Asia and Pacific High-Level Conference on Belt and Road Cooperation are: 1) Initiative for Belt and Road Partnership on COVID-19 Vaccines Cooperation, and 2) the Initiative for Belt and Road Partnership on Green Development. The two outcome papers demonstrate the significance of international cooperation on fighting the pandemic and the necessity of jointly promoting green, low-carbon and sustainable development. Colombia will enter into and work with other countries to implement the above initiatives.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/43227