รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met via a video conference on July 13, 2021.


วันอังคารที่ 20 กรกฎาคม 2564
พิมพ์
The cabinet met via a video conference on July 13, 2021.
The cabinet met via a video conference on July13, 2021.
The cabinet met via a video conference on July 13, 2021. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on prorogation of first ordinary session of the National Assembly, B.E. …
The Cabinet approved in principle the Draft Royal Decree on prorogation of the first legislative ordinary session of the National Assembly, B.E. …, as proposed by the Cabinet Secretariat.
According to Section 121 of the Constitution of the Kingdom of Thailand, each year there shall be two ordinary sessions of the National Assembly, each of which shall last 120 days. The day on which the first sitting is held shall be considered the commencement date of the first annual ordinary session, and the commencement date of the second annual ordinary session shall be fixed by the House of Representatives.
In light of the above, the convocation and prorogation dates of the National Assembly are set as follows:
Year
First annual ordinary session (B.E.)
Second annual ordinary session (B.E.)
1
22 May 2562 – 18 September 2562
1 November 2562 – 28 February 2563
2
22 May 2563 – 18 September 2563
1 November 2563 – 28 February 2564
3
22 May 2564 – 18 September 2564
1 November 2564 – 28 February 2565
4
22 May 2565 – 18 September 2565
1 November 2565 – 28 February 2566
It is, therefore, appropriate for the first annual ordinary session of the National Assembly for B.E. 2564 to be prorogued from September 19, 2021 (2564) onward.
Title: Draft Ministerial Reguation on vehicle tolls for Bang Khun Thian – Pak Tho Intercity Motorway (M82) (Bang Khun Thian – Ban Phaeo Section)
The cabinet approved in principle vehicle tolls for Bang Khun Thian – Pak Tho Intercity Motorway Project (M82) (Bang Khun Thian – Ban Phaeo Section), as proposed by Ministry of Transport.
Gist
The Ministerial Regulation stipulates M82 (Bang Khun Thian – Ban Phaeo Section) as tollway. Tolls will be collected for different types of vehicles at the rates determined in the addendum of the Ministerial Regulation. The rates shall be adjusted every 5 years.
Title: Outcome of the 15th ASEAN Defence Ministers’ Meeting (15th ADMM) and 8th ASEAN Defence Ministers’ Meeting Plus (8th ADMM-Plus)
The cabinet acknowledged outcome of the 15th ASEAN Defence Ministers’ Meeting (15th ADMM) and 8th ASEAN Defence Ministers’ Meeting Plus (8th ADMM-Plus), as proposed by Ministry of Defense.
Gist
The 15th ASEAN Defence Ministers’ Meeting (15th ADMM) and 8th ASEAN Defence Ministers’ Meeting Plus (8th ADMM-Plus) was convened via a teleconference on June 15-16, 2021. Deputy Prime Minister Gen. PRawit Wongsuwon, as head of the Thai delegation endorsed the outcome documents, namely, 1) Bandar Seri Begawan Declaration in Commemoration of the 15th Anniversary of the ADMM Towards a Future-Ready Peaceful and Prosperours ASEAN, and 2) Bandar Seri Begawan Declaration by the ADMM-Plus in Commemoration of the 15th Anniversary of the ADMM on Promoting a Future-Ready, Peaceful and Prosperous ASEAN.
The ASEAN-China Defence Ministers' Informal Meeting was conducted on the sidelines of the 15th ADMM to commemorate 30 years of ASEAN-China dialogue relations and strengthen ASEAN-China defence cooperation.
Title: Thailand’s negotiation framework for WTO Fisheries subsidies ministerial meeting
The cabinet approved the proposals made by Ministry of Commerce as follows:
Approved in principle Thailand’s negotiation framework for WTO Fisheries subsidies ministerial meeting as follows:
Eliminating subsidies for IUU fishing
Good aquatic resource management as a factor to determine a country’s fisheries subsidies
Special and Differential Treatment (SDT) for developing countries, including Thailand
Should there be a proposal for a dialogue or statement of intent that is in line with Thailand’s negotiation framework and is not against national interest, Ministry of Commerce may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
Authorized Minister of Commerce or a representative to attend the meeting on July 15, 2021, and adopt meeting document based on the principles mentioned above.
Title: Draft outcome document for APEC Informal Leaders’ Retreat
The cabinet approved the draft outcome document for APEC Informal Leaders’ Retreat (Statement of the Informal APEC Leaders’ Retreat on COVID-19). Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ministry of Commerce may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. The Prime Minister or a representative is authorized to adopt the outcome document. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
The outcome document was endorsed at the APEC Informal Leaders’ Retreat to focus on economic and healthcare responses in three dimensions: (1) Secure, balanced, inclusive, and sustainable growth: building flexibility of the public healthcare system against current and future impacts, and implementing economic stimulus measures, especially those that contribute to tackling the climate change; (2) Innovation and digitalization: harnessing innovations that enable people and businesses to emerge stronger; and 3) Trade and investment: promoting trade and investment to enable a strong economic recovery. The World Trade Organization is expected to deliver tangible results that support the recovery from the health and economic crisis.
Title: Draft Ministerial Declaration for High-Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development (HLPF)
The cabinet approved the draft Ministerial Declaration for High-Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development (HLPF). Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Foreign Affairs or Thai Permanent Representative to the United Nations at New York is authorized to endorse the document. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
Draft Ministerial Declaration for High-Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development (HLPF) is aimed to demonstrate joint political intent of UN member countries in taking action to achieve the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals, and responding to and recover from the global COVID-19 crisis.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/43920