รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on February 8, 2022 via a video conference


วันจันทร์ที่ 14 กุมภาพันธ์ 2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on February 8, 2022 via a video conference
The cabinet met on February 8, 2022 via a video conference
The cabinet met on February 8, 2022 via a video conference. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Regulation of the Prime Minister’s Office on Preventive Measures against Public Officials’ Involvement in Human Trafficking (No. …), B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle Regulation of the Prime Minister’s Office on Preventive Measures against Public Officials’ Involvement in Human Trafficking (No. …), B.E. …, as proposed by the Committee on Prevention of Public Officials’ Involvement in Human Trafficking
Gist
The regulation is a revision to the Regulation of the Prime Minister’s Office on Preventive Measures against Public Officials’ Involvement in Human Trafficking, B.E. 2558. The revision is as follows:
“Human trafficking” is redefined from “an offense prescribed under the Human Trafficking Prevention and Suppression Act” to “an offense prescribed under the Human Trafficking Prevention and Suppression Act, and bringing a person into the Kingdom without permission prescribed under the Immigration Act which may have an effect on or lead to the commission of human trafficking offenses”
Revision of the component of Committee on Prevention of Public Officials’ Involvement in Human Trafficking. The position of deputy secretary of the committee will be assigned to 2 officials of Office of the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Social Development and Human Security (delegated by Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Social Development and Human Security) instead of a deputy director-general of the Department of Provincial Administration (delegated by director-general of the Department of Provincial Administration).
Title: (Draft) Action Plan on Bio - Circular - Green Economy (BCG) Model for National Development (2021-2027)
The cabinet approved the following proposals made by Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation:
Approved the (Draft) Action Plan on Bio - Circular - Green Economy (BCG) Model for National Development (2021-2027) and the implementation budget of 40,972.60 million Baht.
Ordered concerned agencies to implement the Action Plan accordingly.
Gist
The (Draft) Action Plan on Bio - Circular - Green Economy (BCG) Model for National Development (2021-2027) is aimed to (1) conserve, restore, and manage utilization of biological and cultural resources; (2) create value chain from biological and cultural resources; and (3) promote self-reliance. The Action Plan will be implemented under 4 strategies: 1) promoting sustainability of the resource bases, biodiversity and culture through balancing conservation, restoration and utilization; 2) strengthening communities and grassroots economy through resource capital, identity, creativity and modern technology; 3) sustainably enhancing competitiveness of industries under the BCG economy; and 4) promoting resilience to global changes.
Title: Report on the Industrial Economics Status in November 2021 and the whole year of 2021, and Outlook for 2022
The cabinet acknowledged the report on the Industrial Economics Status in November 2021 and the whole year of 2021, and Outlook for 2022 as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
Based on the report, manufacturing production index (MPI) in November 2021 increases by 4.8% yoy due to purchasing demand in the country and from overseas for several products following the ease of lockdown. Key industries that contributed to the increase were refined petroleum production, electronics parts, plastic beads, palm oil, and pharmaceutical supplies.
MPI for the whole year of 2021 is expected to grow by 5.2%. Key industries that have expanded well are automobiles, electronics parts, iron and steel, air conditioners, and furniture.
In 2022, MPI is expected to grow by 4-5% with the support of: 1) expansion of export markets, 2) domestic market recovery due to the ease of lockdown, and 3) better control of COVID-19 in business sector and fair distribution of vaccine.
Title: Approval on Joint Statement of 2nd Organisation for Economic Co - operation and Development (OECD) Southeast Asia Regional Programme (SEARP) Ministerial Conference
The cabinet approved the Joint Statement of 2nd Organisation for Economic Co - operation and Development (OECD) Southeast Asia Regional Programme (SEARP) Ministerial Conference. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs is authorized to adopt the Joint Statement. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
The Joint Statement of 2nd Organisation for Economic Co - operation and Development (OECD) Southeast Asia Regional Programme (SEARP) Ministerial Conference demonstrates the intent of SEARP member countries to promote sustainable and equitable recovery          throughout the Southeast Asian region through transition to the digital economy, green recovery, cooperation between SEEARP and ASEAN and other regional organizations, and the implementation of Memorandum of Understanding (MoUs) between ASEAN and the OECD (e.g., Country Program Phase 2) in the future.
Title: Meeting outcome of the 4th Thailand-Vietnam Joint Commission on Bilateral Cooperation (JCBC)
The cabinet acknowledged the meeting outcome of the 4th Thailand-Vietnam Joint Commission on Bilateral Cooperation (JCBC), and assigned concerned agencies to proceed accordingly. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
The meeting of the 4th Thailand-Vietnam Joint Commission on Bilateral Cooperation (JCBC) was held via a video conference on November 19, 2021 under the theme “Advancing Strengthened Strategic Partnership for Sustainable and Resilient Recovery and Growth,”, and co-chaired by Thai Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs (Don Pramudwinai) and Vietnamese Minister of Foreign Affairs.
The meeting outcome prescribes cooperation in the following areas:
Partnership for Sustainable Growth: i.e., Resumption of Travels, Public Health, Trade and Investment
Partnership for Sustainable Peace: e.g., regular exchanges of high-level dialogues and strengthen bilateral cooperation on security and defence on the basis of mutual trust, mutual respect and mutual interests
Partnership for Sustainable Future: e.g., cooperation at the people-to-people level, especially in the fields of science, technology and innovation, education and trainings, youths and local-to-local exchanges
At the conclusion of the 4th JCBC Meeting, three MOUs were signed, namely, the MoU on Cooperation between the Ministries of Foreign Affairs, the MoU on Cooperation on Cultural Exchange between the Ministries of Culture, and the MoU on the Establishment of Friendship between the Province of Ubon Ratchathani and the Province of Thua Thien Hue.
Title: Thailand’s hosting of the Fifth APEC Meeting of Ministers Responsible for Forestry (MMRF5)
The cabinet approved for Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, through the Department of Forestry, to host the Fifth APEC Meeting of Ministers Responsible for Forestry (MMRF5) and related meeting during Thailand’s APEC chairmanship in 2022. This is as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment.
Gist
Meetings under the Fifth APEC Meeting of Ministers Responsible for Forestry (MMRF5) are:
The Fifth APEC Meeting of Ministers Responsible for Forestry (MMRF5)
The 21st and 22nd Meeting of Expert Group on Illegal Logging and Associated Trade (EGILAT21, EGILAT22)
Deliverables Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment will put forward are APEC Action Plan for Forest Management and Innovation, and Forest Timber and Products Certification and Declaration.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/51439