รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on November 23, 2021.


วันอาทิตย์ที่ 28 พฤศจิกายน 2564
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on November 23, 2021.
The cabinet met on November 23, 2021.
The cabinet met on November 23, 2021. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Sukhothai province (Sawankhalok district’s Pa Kum Koh, NaiMuang, Khlongyang subdistricts, and Si Nakhon district’s Sinakhon and Khlong Plubsubdistricts), and Uttaradit province (Pichai district’s Rai Oy and Khorum subdistricts), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Sukhothai province (Sawankhalok district’s Pa Kum Koh, NaiMuang, Khlongyang subdistricts, and Si Nakhon district’s Sinakhon and Khlong Plub subdistricts), and Uttaradit province (Pichai district’s Rai Oy and Khorum subdistricts), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives.
Gist
The Royal Decree prescribes areas in Sukhothai province (Sawankhalok district’s Pa Kum Koh, Nai Muang, Khlongyang subdistricts, and Si Nakhon district’s Sinakhon and Khlong Plubsubdistricts), and Uttaradit province (Pichai district’s Rai Oy and Khorum subdistricts) to be expropriated for construction and renovation project of Khlong Yom-Nan Canal in Sukhothai province for future flood prevention.
Title: Thailand’s Belt and Road Energy Partnership (BREP)
The cabinet approved Thailand’s Belt and Road Energy Partnership (BREP), as invited by China’s national energy agency. Ministry of Energy is assigned as Thailand’s main agency in collaborating and implementing activities together with the Chinese counterpart. The cabinet also approved 2 documents to be signed, namely, the Joint Declaration on Building the Belt and Road Energy Partnership, and Cooperation Principles and Concrete Actions of the Belt and Road Energy Partnership, and assigned Minister of Energy as signatory of the documents, which are to be sent back to China’s national energy agency. This is as proposed by Ministry of Energy.
Thailand’s participation in the Belt and Road Energy Partnership (BREP) would help enhance relations with China. The country can also determine plans/activities under the energy cooperation in line with the need for national energy development.
Title: Draft Agreement on extension of MOU between Global Green Growth Institute (GGGI) and Office of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy and Planning
The cabinet approved the draft Agreement on extension of MOU between Global Green Growth Institute (GGGI) and Office of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy and Planning. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Natural Resource and Environment may proceed without having to submit to the cabinet. Direictor-General of Office of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy and Planning or a representative is authorized as signatory of the draft Agreement. This is as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment.
Gist
According to the draft Agreement on extension of MOU between Global Green Growth Institute (GGGI) and Office of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy and Planning, the extension is made for another 5 years to end on September 30, 2015 under the same regulations and conditions unless agreed otherwise.
Title: Outcome of Ministerial Meeting of the Friends of Mekong
The cabinet acknowledged outcome of Ministerial Meeting of the Friends of Mekong, and assigned concerned agencies to proceed accordingly. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs attended the Ministerial Meeting of the Friends of Mekong via a teleconference on August 5, 2021, together with participants from 13 member countries, observer countries, and 4 representatives of member organizations.
The meeting was aimed to celebrate the 10thanniversary of the establishment of the Friends of Mekong, and welcomed Mekong River Commission Secretariat (MRCS) as new member. Key issues of mutual interest were also discussed, i.e., water management, climate change, public health cooperation, economic recovery, connectivity with other cooperation frameworks.
Title: Request for approval on outcome documents for ASEM 13
The cabinet approved 3 draft outcome documentsfor the 13th Asia-Europe Meeting (ASEM 13), that is, 1) 13th Asia-Europe Meeting Chair’s Statement; 2) Phnom Penh Statement on the post-COVID-19 Socio-Economic Recovery; and 3) The Way Forward on ASEM Connectivity.
Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. The Prime Minister or head of the Thai delegation to attend the ASEM 13 is authorized to adopt the 3 documents. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
The Prime Minister is scheduled to attend the 13thAsia-Europe Meeting (ASEM 13) via a teleconference during November 25-26, 2021. ASEM 13 will be hosted by the Kingdom of Cambodia.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/48800