รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met via a video conference on August 3, 2021.


วันจันทร์ที่ 9 สิงหาคม 2564
พิมพ์
The cabinet met via a video conference on August 3, 2021.
The cabinet met via a video conference on August 3, 2021.
The cabinet met via a video conference on August 3, 2021. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Ministerial Announcement on revocation of the Ministerial Announcement on Industrial Standard for Audio, Video and Similar Electronic Apparatus: B.E. 2564 Safety Requirements, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Announcement on revocation of the Ministerial Announcement on Industrial Standard for Audio, Video and Similar Electronic Apparatus: B.E. 2564 Safety Requirements, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Announcement on revocation of the Ministerial Announcement on Industrial Standard for Audio, Video and Similar Electronic Apparatus: B.E. 2564 Safety Requirements, B.E. … has been approved with an aim to streamline related business operations and production in a bid to ensure relevance with the latest technologies.
Title: Report on the Industrial Economics Status for May 2021
The cabinet acknowledged Industrial Economic Report for May 2021, as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
Based on the report, manufacturing production index (MPI) increased by 25.8% YOY partly because of the low baseline of May 2020, which was impacted by the first phase of COVID-19 pandemic, and the export growth.
Key industries that contributed to the MPI increase were automobiles and parts (an increase of 151.44%), air conditioners and parts (an increase of 90.25%), electronic parts (an increase of 35.35%), iron and steel (an increase of 40.28%), and automotive tires (an increase of 167.86%).
Title: Informal Gathering of Cairns Group Ministers
The cabinet acknowledged the followings:
The change of the event title from the 42nd Cairns Group Ministerial Meeting to the “Informal Gathering of Cairns Group Ministers”
The outcome of the Informal Gathering of Cairns Group Ministers
Statement of the Ministers of the Cairns Group, dated June 23, 2021
The meeting was held virtually with Assistant to Minister of Commerce Sansern Samalapha as head of the Thai delegation.
Gist
Cairns Group Ministers called for a Ministerial Decision at WTO’s Twelfth Ministerial Conference (MC12) that addresses agricultural trade- and production-distorting domestic support, and underlined that it is essential for MC12 to deliver an ambitious, concrete and equitable outcome in agriculture. They also emphasized the importance of the continuation of the multilateral reform process in agriculture, on which Thailand also demonstrated its intent. According to the statement of the Cairns Group Ministers, reducing barriers to trade and market distortions is a critical pathway to enable countries to raise incomes and standards of living, provide employment and ensure sustainable development. In addition, rising global food insecurity, climate change and sustainable development challenges underline the urgency for such reforms.
Title: Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between Ministry of Public Health, Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation, Ministry of Industry of the Kingdom of Thailand and Japan’s Cabinet Secretariat, Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry
The cabinet approved the draft Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between Ministry of Public Health, Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation, Ministry of Industry of the Kingdom of Thailand and Japan’s Cabinet Secretariat, Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, and approved for Thai Ambassador to Japan or a representative as signatory of the MOU. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist, Ministry of Public Health is authorized to exercise judgment without having to resubmit to the cabinet for approval. This is as proposed by Ministry of Public Health.
Gist
The draft Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between Ministry of Public Health, Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation, Ministry of Industry of the Kingdom of Thailand and Japan’s Cabinet Secretariat, Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry prescribes promotion of cooperation between Thailand and Japan on healthcare, such as medical services, physical rehabilitation, elederly care, public health infrastructure development, vaccines, universal healthcare insurances, medical equipment and supplies, and human resource development.
Title: Joint Statement of the Friends of the Mekong Consultative Draft: “Recovery and Resilience”
The cabinet approved the Joint Statement of the Friends of the Mekong Consultative Draft: “Recovery and Resilience”. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs is authorized to exercise judgment without having to resubmit to the cabinet for approval. Minister of Foreign Affairs or a representative is authorized to adopt the Joint Statement without signing. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
The Joint Statement of the Friends of the Mekong Consultative Draft: “Recovery and Resilience” prescribes an increase of cooperation among members, as well as with other regional Mekong mechanisms, to strengthen recovery, resilience, and development across the Mekong sub-region; support for complementarity with existing cooperation frameworks, including the ASEAN Comprehensive Recovery Framework, the Ayeyawady-Chao Phraya-Mekong Economic Cooperation Strategy (ACMECS), other Mekong cooperation mechanisms, and the East Asia Summit; and the Friends of the Mekong’s role and cooperation in addressing transboundary challenges, supporting resilient and inclusive growth in the aftermath of COVID-19, among others.
The Joint Statement of the Friends of the Mekong Consultative Draft will be adopted without signing at the 2021 Friends of the Mekong Ministerial Meeting to be held on August 5, 2021.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/44604