รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on February 15, 2022


วันศุกร์ที่ 18 กุมภาพันธ์ 2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on February 15, 2022
The cabinet met on February 15, 2022
The cabinet met on February 15, 2022. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Bangkok (Bang Khunthien district’s Samae Dam sub-district, and Bang Bon district’s Bang Bon Tai sub-district), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Bangkok (Bang Khunthien district’s Samae Dam sub-district, and Bang Bon district’s Bang Bon Tai sub-district), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Interior.
Gist
The Royal Decree prescribes areas in Bangkok (Bang Khunthien district’s Samae Dam sub-district, and Bang Bon district’s Bang Bon Tai sub-district) to be expropriated for an expansion of Lung Nang Canal and construction of a concrete levee at Lung Nang Canal as part of flood prevention and drainage system.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on revocation of coastal zoning, B.E., …, and 23 draft Ministerial Regulations on coastal zoning for each of the 23 coastal provinces
The cabinet approved in principle: 1) draft Ministerial Regulation on revocation of coastal zoning, B.E., …, and 2) draft Ministerial Regulations on coastal zoning for each of the 23 coastal provinces, as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resource and Environment.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on revocation of coastal zoning, B.E., …, prescribes revocation of Ministerial Regulation on coastal zoning, B.E. 2560, Ministerial Regulation on coastal zoning (No. 2), B.E. 2563, and Ministerial Regulation on coastal zoning (No. 3), B.E. 2563.
The 23 draft Ministerial Regulations on coastal zoning prescribe coastal zoning for each of the 23 coastal provinces, namely, Krabi, Chonburi, Trang, Trat, Phang-gna, Phuket, Ranong, Satun, Surat Thani, Chanthaburi, Rayong, Chacheongsao, Samut Prakarn, Bangkok, Samut Sakhon, Samut Songkhram, Phetchaburi, Prachuab Kirikhan, Chumphon, Nakhon Si Thammarat, Songkhla, Pattani, and Narathiwat.
Title: (Draft) 3rd National Action Plan on Tobacco Control (2022-2027)
The cabinet approved the (draft) 3rd National Action Plan on Tobacco Control (2022-2027), and assigned concerned agencies to translate the plan into action.
Gist
The 3rd National Action Plan on Tobacco Control (2022-2027) is aimed to reduce prevalence of tobacco consumption among the Thais and health threats from smoke. Six following strategies will be implemented with the total budget of 498.039 million Baht:
First strategy: Enhancing and elevating the country's tobacco control capacity (budget framework: 138.800 million Baht), e.g., law enforcement and amendment in accordance with the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (WHO FCTC), etc.
Second strategy: Preventing smoking initiation of new tobacco users and monitoring tobacco business (budget framework: 99.186 million Baht), e.g., providing education to youths, controlling tobacco industry’s advertising and marketing, etc.
Third strategy: Providing treatment to users with tobacco dependence (budget framework: 51.832 million Baht), e.g., strengthening community network against tobacco use, developing quit-tobacco hotline, etc.
Fourth strategy: Controlling, inspecting, monitoring, and disclosing ingredients in tobacco products (budget framework: 12.500 million Baht), e.g., developing database of tobacco product ingredients, developing an inspection system to check for harmful ingredients in tobacco products, etc.
Fifth strategy: Promoting smoke-free environments (budget framework: 165.721 million Baht), e.g., revising regulations to make all public places and work places 100% smoke-free, changing attitudes of tobacco use in public and work places in order to become the social norm, etc.
Sixth strategy: Implementing tax measures for tobacco control (budget framework: 30 million Baht), e.g., revising tobacco tax structure, reducing tax benefits related to tobacco products, reducing impact against tobacco farmers as a result of tobacco control, etc.
Tobacco control policy would have positive impact on both economic, social, and political dimensions, especially in decreasing medical cost, and enhancing the people’s health and quality of life. In addition, Thailand would be internationally recognized as a leader in tobacco control.
Title: Resolutions of 3/2021 and 1/2022 meetings of National Policy Committee on Electric Vehicles
The cabinet acknowledged the resolutions made at the 3/2021 and 1/2022 meetings of National Policy Committee on Electric Vehicles on November 29, 2021, and January 14, 2022 respectively, as proposed by Ministry of Energy, and ordered concerned agencies to proceed accordingly.
Gist
With regard to the budget framework, earmarked at 3 billion Baht and to be allocated from the 2022 central budget (contingency budget), the Excise Department and Ministry of Finance shall proceed according to the Budget Bureau’s opinion. Ministry of Finance, in collaboration with the Budget Bureau and Office of National Economic and Social Development Council, is to seek financial sources for the implementation of EV promotion measures for fiscal years 2023-2025.
Title: Outcome of meeting between Thai Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Affairs Minister and Secretary of State for Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Affairs of the United Kingdom
The cabinet acknowledged the outcome of the meeting between Thai Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Affairs Minister (Don Pramudwinai) and Secretary of State for Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Affairs of the United Kingdom (Elizabeth Truss) during the latter’s official visit to Thailand. Concerned agencies were also ordered to proceed according to the meeting outcome. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
Thai Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Affairs Minister (Don Pramudwinai) and Secretary of State for Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Affairs of the United Kingdom (Elizabeth Truss) met on November 10, 2021 during the latter’s official visit to Thailand (November 8-10, 2021) to reinforce strategic partnership between Thailand and UK.
Issues of discussion include bilateral cooperation (exchange of visits, politics and security, economic affairs, trade and investment, and travel facilitation), multilateral issues (Thailand’s membership of the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership, Universal Periodic Review under UN Human Rights Council, the Myanmar situation, and the role of China), and other activities (UK Secretary of State for Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Affairs’ attendance at the Roundtable: Clean and Green Initiative-Financing Infrastructure for Recovery and Growth in Thailand, her visit at Triumph Motorcycles (Thailand), and her opening of the new UK Embassy to Thailand).
Title: Update on WTO Twelfth Ministerial Conference (MC12) and related meetings
The cabinet acknowledged Ministry of Commerce’s update on World Trade Organization (WTO) Twelfth Ministerial Conference (MC12) and related meetings as follows:
WTO Twelfth Ministerial Conference (MC12) and related meetings had earlier been scheduled during November 30- December 3, 2021 in Geneva, the Swiss Confederation, and was to be co-hosted by WTO and Republic of Kazakhstan. However, Thailand was notified by WTO Chair of the General Council on November 26, 2021 on the postponement of MC12 until the COVID-19 situation eases.
Ministry of Commerce also updated on the discussion made between WTO member states, gist of which is as follows:
MC12 chair and vice chair called on WTO member states to push forward negotiations in various issues for prompt outcomes, and proposed physical meeting in the first week of March 2022 should the situation accommodates. WTO member states also discussed key issues of mutual interest, e.g., fishery, agriculture, and response to pandemic.
Title: Letter of Intent (LOI) on Clean Energy Demand Initiative (CEDI) between Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and private sector of the United States of America
The cabinet approved the Letter of Intent (LOI) on Clean Energy Demand Initiative (CEDI) between Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and private sector of the United States of America, and authorized Minister of Energy or a representative as signatory of the LOI. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Energy may proceed and inform the cabinet later of the amendment. This is as proposed by Ministry of Energy.
Gist
Letter of Intent (LOI) on Clean Energy Demand Initiative (CEDI) between Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and private sector of the United States of America demonstrates commitment of both parties to promote clean energy investment in Thailand. The LOI is the Non-Binding Agreement, and prescribes clean energy procurement principles Thailand shall implement to facilitate investment from the U.S. The U.S. private firms that initially expressed intent to cosign the LOI are 1) HP Inc. 2) Apple 3) Akamai 4) Meta Platforms, Inc. 5)Johnson & Johnson 6) Nike 7) Dow Inc. 8) Iron Mountain 9) Inter IKEA Group 10) Lululemon 11) Spiber Inc. 12) Ralph Lauren Corporation 13) Unilever14) TAL Apparel 15) Amer Sports 16) RIFE International 17) Amazon 18) WeWork 19) TCI CO., LTD.
Title: Appointment of Representative of Thailand to ASEAN Intergovernmental Commission on Human Rights (AICHR) for January 1, 2022- December 31, 2024
The cabinet approved the following proposal made by Ministry of Foreign Affairs:
Approved an appointment of Dr. Amara Pongsapich as Representative of Thailand to ASEAN Intergovernmental Commission on Human Rights (AICHR) for January 1, 2022- December 31, 2024. Her appointment shall be effective on the date of the cabinet’s approval
Ministry of Foreign Affairs was instructed to send a notification letter to ASEAN Secretary-General and member states regarding the appointment

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/51712