รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on July 5, 2022


วันจันทร์ที่ 11 กรกฎาคม 2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on July 5, 2022
The cabinet met on July 5, 2022
The cabinet met on July 5, 2022. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Fee Exemption for Hotel Business Operation, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Fee Exemption for Hotel Business Operation, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Interior, and has the draft ministerial regulation forwarded to Office of Council of State for further consideration.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Fee Exemption for Hotel Business Operation, B.E. …, prescribes an extension of hotel business operation fee exemption (40 Baht/hotel room/year) for 2 years from July 1, 2022 to June 30, 2024, as part of a measure to assist hotel business operators who are economically impacted by the COVID-19 situation.
Title: Draft Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Digital Economy and Society of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Ministry of Post and Telecommunications of the Kingdom of Cambodia on Cooperation for Suppressing Call Center Gang and Hybrid Scam
The cabinet approved the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Digital Economy and Society of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Ministry of Post and Telecommunications of the Kingdom of Cambodia on Cooperation for Suppressing Call Center Gang and Hybrid Scam. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against the principle approved by the cabinet, Ministry of Digital Economy and Society may proceed and inform the cabinet later of the amendment. Minister of Digital Economy and Society is authorized a signatory of the draft MOU. This is as proposed by Ministry of Digital Economy and Society.
Gist
The draft Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Digital Economy and Society of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Ministry of Post and Telecommunications of the Kingdom of Cambodia on Cooperation for Suppressing Call Center Gang and Hybrid Scam sets the cooperation framework and proper measures with regard to suppression of call center gang and hybrid scam. Activities specified under the MOU are: 1) exchanging knowledge, technical expertise and excellent practices on suppression of call center gang and hybrid scam; 2) appointing coordinators to facilitate related investigation; 3) liaising the extradition process; 4) establishing a co-working group between the two countries; and 5) other areas of cooperation.
Title: Thailand’s membership in “The Asia initiative” and signing of “The Asia Initiative (The Asia Initiative Declaration)”
The cabinet approved Thailand’s membership in “The Asia initiative” under Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information for Tax Purposes, and the essence of The Asia Initiative.
signing of “The Asia Initiative (The Asia Initiative Declaration)”. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Finance may proceed. Minister of Finance was authorized as signatory of the Asia Initiative Declaration. Upon signing, Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall send the signed Declaration via a diplomatic channel to the Thai Ambassador to Indonesia, which will be submitted to the Global Forum Secretariat on July 14, 2022 in Bali. This is as proposed by Ministry of Finance.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/56778