รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on June 14, 2022


วันจันทร์ที่ 20 มิถุนายน 2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on June 14, 2022
The cabinet met on June 14, 2022. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for air-cleaning appliances, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for Air-cleaning appliances, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Industry. The draft Ministerial Regulation has been scrutinized by Office of Council of State.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for Air-cleaning appliances, B.E. …, prescribes Thai Industrial Standard for air-cleaning appliances under TIS 60335 Book 2 (65)-2564, in accordance with the Ministerial Announcement No. 6389 (B.E. 2564) and issued under the Industrial Product Standards Act B.E. 2511.
The draft Ministerial Regulation shall take effect 270 days after being announced in the Royal Gazette.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for massage appliances, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for massage appliances, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Industry. The draft Ministerial Regulation has been scrutinized by Office of Council of State.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for massage appliances, B.E. …, prescribes Thai Industrial Standard for massage appliances under TIS 60335 Book 2 (32)-2564, in accordance with the Ministerial Announcement No. 6388 (B.E. 2564) and issued under the Industrial Product Standards Act B.E. 2511.
The draft Ministerial Regulation shall take effect 270 days after being announced in the Royal Gazette.
Title: Request for approval on construction of extension phase of Motorway No. 7 (U-Tapao Airport): Department of Highways’ project
The cabinet approved the proposal of Ministry of Transport for the Department of Highways to construct the extension phase of Motorway No. 7 (U-Tapao Airport) for the total budget of 4,508 million Baht.
Gist
The budget approved under the construction project for the extension phase of Motorway No. 7 (U-Tapao Airport) is 4,508 million Baht, comprising: 1) contruction and consultancy cost and contingency 4,4 billion Baht; and 2) land ownership fee 108 million Baht. The project’s EIA is now under revision in accordance with the comments of the expert committee considering environmental impact assessment report for land and air infrastructure projects, and will be submitted to the National Environment Commission upon an approval of the expert committee.
Title: Draft memorandum of understanding on cyber security between National Cybersecurity Agency and Cyberspace Administration of the People’s Republic of China
The cabinet approved the draft memorandum of understanding on cyber security between National Cybersecurity Agency (NCSA) and Cyberspace Administration of the People’s Republic of China. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against the principle approved by the cabinet, Ministry of Digital Economy and Society/NCSA may proceed and inform the cabinet later of the amendment. Minister of digital economy and society or a representative is authorized to sign the MOU. This is as proposed by National Security Agency.
Gist
The draft memorandum of understanding on cyber security between National Cybersecurity Agency (NCSA) and Cyberspace Administration of the People’s Republic of China is aimed to: 1) promote technological innovation for socio economic development through strong cyber security cooperation; 2) promote cooperation on cyber affairs; 3) exchange information, skills, and experiences in cyber security for mutual interest; and 4) reflect mutual intent to promote cyber peace and stability, reduce cyber crime related risks, and increase opportunities for economic growth and prosperity through digital trade.
Title: Letter of Intent between Ministry of Digital Economy and Society of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Department for Digital, Culture, Media & Sport of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on Collaboration in the Fields of Digital Economy and Digital Technologies via the British Embassy Bangkok and the UK’s Asia Pacific Digital Trade Network
The cabinet approved the signing of the Letter of Intent between Ministry of Digital Economy and Society of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Department for Digital, Culture, Media & Sport of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on Collaboration in the Fields of Digital Economy and Digital Technologies via the British Embassy Bangkok and the UK’s Asia Pacific Digital Trade Network. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against the principle approved by the cabinet, Ministry of Digital Economy and Society may proceed and inform the cabinet later of the amendment. Minister of digital economy and society or a representative is authorized to sign the LOI.
Gist
The Letter of Intent between Ministry of Digital Economy and Society of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Department for Digital, Culture, Media & Sport of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on Collaboration in the Fields of Digital Economy and Digital Technologies via the British Embassy Bangkok and the UK’s Asia Pacific Digital Trade Network is aimed to acknowledge and increased digital economy partnership between the Kingdom of Thailand and the United Kingdom, facilitate trade and investment in digital technology and promote cooperation on regulations, technology, and trade, and to deepen relations on digital economy and technology between ASEA and the UK and North Ireland, as ASEAN’s new dialogue partner, among others.
Title: Request for approval on Australia for ASEAN Futures Initiative
The cabinet approved the draft Memorandum of Understanding between ASEAN and the government of Australia on “Australia for ASEAN Futures Initiative.” Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without resubmitting to the cabinet. ASEAN Secretary-General or a representative is authorized as signatory of the MOU. Ministry of Foreign Affairs is assigned to notify ASEAN Secretariat in Jakarta of the Thai Government’s consent for the signing. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
The draft Memorandum of Understanding between ASEAN and the government of Australia on “Australia for ASEAN Futures Initiative is not considered an international agreement by ASEAN, so it is not in compliance with 2011 Rules of Procedure for the Conclusion of International Agreements by ASEAN.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/55903