รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met via a video conference on August 10, 2021.


วันจันทร์ที่ 16 สิงหาคม 2564
พิมพ์
The cabinet met via a video conference on August 10, 2021.
The cabinet met via a video conference on August 10, 2021.
The cabinet met via a video conference on August 10, 2021. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on status revocation of land which is a public domain for common use by the citizens in Nai Muang subdistrict, Muang district Roi Et province, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Draft Royal Decree on status revocation of land which is a public domain for common use by the citizens in Nai Muang subdistrict, Muang district Roi Et province, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Interior.
Gist
The draft Royal Decree prescribes status revocation of land, which is a public domain for common use by the citizens, in Nai Muang subdistrict, Muang district Roi Et province, with the area of 1-1-17 rai, for Roi Et municipality to use for the construction of Sa Sim health promotion and service center.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for high pressure cleaners and steam cleaners, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for high pressure cleaners and steam cleaners, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for high pressure cleaners and steam cleaners, B.E. …, prescribes Thai Industrial Standard for high pressure cleaners and steam cleaners under TIS 60335 Book 2 (79) 2020, in accordance with the Ministerial Announcement No. 6168 (B.E. 2564), dated February 10, 2021 on withdrawal and prescription of Thai industrial standard for high pressure cleaners and steam cleaners.
Title: Request for approval on loan to support liquidity for Bangkok Mass Transit Authority (FY2022)
The cabinet approved Ministry of Transport’s request for Bangkok Mass Transit Auhtority to seek loan to support its liquidity for FY2022 for the total amount of 7,803.718 million Baht. Ministry of Finance is to be the guarantor.
Title: ASEAN Sectoral Mutual Recognition Arrangement for Building and Construction Materials
The cabinet approved the draft ASEAN Sectoral Mutual Recognition Arrangement for Building and Construction Materials (ASEAN BC MRA), as proposed by Ministry of Industry, and authorized Minister of Commerce or a representative to sign the Agreement. Ministry of Foreign Affairs is to issue the Full Powers to Minister of Commerce or a representative. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Industry may proceed according to the cabinet resolution dated June 30, 2015 on preparation of contracts relating to international relations or international organizations.
Gist
The ASEAN BC MRA is aimed to enable mutual recognition of inspection and certification systems on food hygiene with regard to the production, import, and export of prepared foodstuff products in order to facilitate trade in ASEAN and protect the health of consumers. The ASEAN BC MRA will benefit Thailand and ASEAN member countries with mutual recognition for building and construction materials being certified by a Comformity Assessment Body (CAB), thereby, reduce technical trade obstacle within ASEAN.
Title: Outcome of the Special Meeting of ASEAN Ministers on Energy and the Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan
The cabinet acknowledged the outcome of the Special Meeting of ASEAN Ministers on Energy and the Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan, held via teleconference on June 21, 2021, and attended by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Energy (Supattanapong Punmeechaow) as Thai representative.
Gist
At the meeting, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Energy disclosed Thailand’s approaches toward carbon neutrality as follows:
Increase low-carbon electricity generation
Develop and promote EV industry
Promote urgent reforestation plan to increase carbon-absorbing areas
Enhance close cooperation with ASEAN member countries and Japan to promote energy security and sustainability in parallel with trade and investment promotion
Title: Joint Press Statement of the Fifth Meeting of the Japan-Thailand High level Joint Commission
The cabinet approved the draft Joint Press Statement of the Fifth Meeting of the Japan-Thailand High level Joint Commission. Should Japan want to amend the joint statement in parts that are not against Thailand’s policies, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
Gist
The Joint Press Statement of the Fifth Meeting of the Japan-Thailand High level Joint Commission prescribes discussion of wide-ranging economic cooperation issues with a view to strengthening the strategic economic partnership between Thailand and Japan in the post-COVID-19 period.
1. Collaboration between Thailand’s Bio-Circular-Green (BCG) Economy Model and Japan’s Green Growth Strategy
Both sides expressed intention to enhance cooperation in bio, circular and green development for economic growth by synergizing Thailand’s Bio-Circular-Green (BCG) Economy Model and Japan’s Green Growth Strategy, in the areas of the bio, circular and green technologies and innovations, particularly on bio-technology, agriculture and food, electronics, materials, nanotechnology, low-carbon technology, energy for circular economy, and automobiles, to achieve the target of Carbon Neutrality.
2. Cooperation in Trade, Investment, Industrial Development and Enhancement of Business Environment
Both sides expressed intention to strengthen cooperation in (1) quality investment with resilient business environment in Thailand and Japan and investment in targeted industries; (2) industrial and SMEs promotion through various projects such as  Lean IoT Plant management and Execution (LIPE); (3) Start-ups through Japan’s initiatives including Asia Digital Transformation; (4) human resource development through “KOSEN” institutes in Thailand; and (5) local-to-local cooperation.
3. Cooperation for Connectivity Enhancement, Development of the Mekong Sub-region, and Healthcare Field
Both sides reaffirmed the determination to continue collaboration in the development of the quality infrastructure, including transport system in Thailand through key railways development projects, such as the Red Line Mass Transit System and the Bangkok-Chiang Mai High Speed Rail as well as the Second Mass Rapid Transit Master Plan in Bangkok Metropolitan Region (M-MAP2), the Bang Sue Smart City and the road traffic cooperation.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/44790