รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on May 3, 2022


วันจันทร์ที่ 9 พฤษภาคม 2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on May 3, 2022
The cabinet met on May 3, 2022
The cabinet met on May 3, 2022. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation prescribing state agency eligible for the request of administration actions from judicial officers (No. …), B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation prescribing state agency eligible for the request of administration actions from judicial officers (No. …), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Education.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation prescribes Khurusapha as state agencies eligible for the request of administration actions from judicial officers in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, B.E. 2539 (1996) and the revised Administrative Procedure Act (No. 3), B.E. 2562 (2019).
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for fluoro polymer coated utensils in contact with food, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for fluoro polymer coated utensils in contact with food, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for fluoro polymer coated utensils in contact with food, B.E. …, prescribes Thai Industrial Standard for fluoro polymer coated utensils in contact with food under TIS 2622-2556, in accordance with the Ministerial Announcement No. 4604 (B.E. 2557), dated January 27, 2014 and issued under the Industrial Product Standards Act B.E. 2511, on Withdrawal and Prescription of Thai Industrial Standard for fluoro polymer coated utensils in contact with food.
The draft Ministerial Regulation shall take effect 270 days after eing announced in the Royal Gazette.
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Bangkok (Anusawari and Tha Raeng subdistricts in Bangkhen district, and Khlong Thanon subdistrict in Sai Mai district), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Bangkok (Anusawari and Tha Raeng subdistricts in Bangkhen district, and Khlong Thanon subdistrict in Sai Mai district), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Interior.
Gist
The Royal Decree prescribes areas in in Bangkok (Anusawari and Tha Raeng subdistricts in Bangkhen district, and Khlong Thanon subdistrict in Sai Mai district), B.E. …to be expropriated for the extension of a local road linking Ram Inthra and Thepparak Roads.
Title: Report on the Industrial Economics Status in February 2022
The cabinet acknowledged Industrial Economic Report for February 2022 as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
Based on the report, manufacturing production index (MPI) expanded by 2.8% YOY as a result of an increase in internal and external demand of purchase for various products.
Key industries that contributed to the growth were refined petroleum production (+15.88%), beer production (+40.94%), electronics parts (+6.18%), automotive (+2.22%), and textile and wearing apparel industry (+23.26%).
Title: Memorandum of Understanding between Government of Kingdom of Thailand and Government of Lao PDR on Thai - Laos Arboretum construction project
The cabinet approved the drafting of an MOU between Government of Kingdom of Thailand and Government of Lao PDR on Thai - Laos Arboretum construction project, and authorized Director-General of Department of National Parks, Wildlife and Plant Conservation as signatory of the MOU. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Ministry of Foreign Affairs is to issue the Full Powers to Director-General of Department of National Parks, Wildlife and Plant Conservation. This is as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment.
Gist
Thai - Laos Arboretum construction project is a key project under the Framework for Thai - Lao Cooperation 2018 – 2021, agreed upon by both countries in 2017 with an aim to promote friendship and cordial relations. The Arboretum will also be Lao PDR’s sustainable natural recreation spot for the Lao people.
The Thai - Laos Arboretum will be constructed in the area of Somboun Nason School, Pak Ngum town in Vientiane prefecture. The construction period will be until December 31, 2025.
Title: Roadmap for Thai-French Relations (2022-2024)
The cabinet acknowledged the proposal made by Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the Roadmap for Thai-French Relations (2022-2024) (Thai and French versions), which was signed by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Don Pramudwinai and Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs of France Jean-Yves Le Drian on February 22, 2022 in Paris during the Ministerial Forum for Cooperation in the Indo-Pacific
Roadmap for Thai-French Relations (2022-2024) is aimed to enhance bilateral relations with a view to establishing  strategic partnership by 2024, and promoting Thailand’s interests in political, economic and social aspects. At the signing ceremony, both sides held a bilateral meeting during which the Thai side expressed appreciation for France’s donation of 400,140 doses of the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine to Thailand. Thailand also sought France’s support for the negotiations for Thailand-EU Comprehensive Partnership and Cooperation Agreement (PCA) and the resumption of the negotiations for Thailand-EU Free Trade Agreement (FTA). Both sides also exchanged views on situation in the regions such as situation in Myanmar and the tension between Russia and Ukraine.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/54374