รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met via a video conference on September 28, 2021.


วันพุธที่ 29 กันยายน 2564
พิมพ์
The cabinet met via a video conference on September 28, 2021.
The cabinet met via a video conference on September 28, 2021.
The cabinet met via a video conference on September 28, 2021. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in part of Kanchanaburi province (Huay Krajao district’s Sa Long Rue sub-district), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in part of Kanchanaburi province (Huay Krajao district’s Sa Long Rue sub-district), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Transport.
Gist
The Royal Decree prescribes areas in part of Kanchanaburi province (Huay Krajao district’s Sa Long Rue sub-district) to be expropriated for extension of U Thong- Bo Ploi Highway (no. 3342) (Wang Khon- Bo Ploi section).
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in Bangkok’s Bang Phlad district (Bang Or subdistrict), Dusit district (Nakhon Chaisri subdistrict), Bang Sue district (Bang Sue subdistrict), Phayathai district (Samsen Nai subdistrict), and Jatujak district (Jatujak and Chomphon subdistricts), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in Bangkok’s Bang Phlad district (Bang Or subdistrict), Dusit district (Nakhon Chaisri subdistrict), Bang Sue district (Bang Sue subdistrict), Phayathai district (Samsen Nai subdistrict), and Jatujak district (Jatujak and Chomphon subdistricts), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Interior.
Gist
The Royal Decree prescribes areas in Bangkok’s Bang Phlad district (Bang Or subdistrict), Dusit district (Nakhon Chaisri subdistrict), Bang Sue district (Bang Sue subdistrict), Phayathai district (Samsen Nai subdistrict), and Jatujak district (Jatujak and Chomphon subdistricts) to be expropriated for the construction of a bridge crossing Chao Phraya River (at the area around Kiak Kai intersection), and construction and extension of connecting road.
Title: Extension of Special Tourist VISA (STV)
The cabinet approved the proposals made by Ministry of Tourism and Sports as follows:
1. Approved extension of Special Tourist VISA (STV) for another 1 year from October 1, 2021 to September 30, 2022.
2. Approved draft Interior Ministerial Regulations on permission for certain types of aliens to stay in the Kingdom as a special case, and permission for certain types of aliens who enter the Kingdom by yatchs to stay in the Kingdom as a special case
3. Assigned concerned agencies to proceed accordingly.
Title: Adoption of Ministerial Declaration of the Group of 77 and China to UNCTAD XV: From inequality and vulnerability to prosperity for all, and UNCTAD XV (The Bridgetown Covenant: From inequality and vulnerability to prosperity for all)
The cabinet approved Ministerial Declaration of the Group of 77 and China to UNCTAD XV: From inequality and vulnerability to prosperity for all, and UNCTAD XV (The Bridgetown Covenant: From inequality and vulnerability to prosperity for all), and for Minister of Foreign Affairs or a representative to adopt the 2 documents. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
Gist
UNCTAD XV will be held under theme: “From inequality and vulnerability to prosperity for all”, its first meeting after the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs is scheduled to deliver a pre-recorded statement at UNCTAD XV.
The draft Ministerial Declaration of the Group of 77 and China to UNCTAD XV: From inequality and vulnerability to prosperity for all demonstrates the commitment of Group of 77 and China on UNCTAD’s role and missions, and the UNCTAD XV.
The draft UNCTAD XV (The Bridgetown Covenant: From inequality and vulrerability to prosperity for all) prescribes the impact of COVID-19 on trade and development, global challenges, resilience promotion, and UNCTAD’s role in the analysis of sustainable development and intergovernmental machinery.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/46348