รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met via a video conference on July 27, 2021.


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 29 กรกฎาคม 2564
พิมพ์
The cabinet met via a video conference on July 27, 2021.
The cabinet met via a video conference on July 27, 2021.
The cabinet met via a video conference on July 27, 2021. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in Saladaeng sub-district, Bang Nampreow district, Chachoengsao province, B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in Saladaeng sub-district, Bang Nampreow district, Chachoengsao province, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives.
Gist
The Royal Decree prescribes areas in Saladaeng sub-district, Bang Nampreow district, Chachoengsao province to be expropriated for construction of water gate and appurtenant structures under the Phra Ong Chaiyanuchit Canal water gate construction project.
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Prachinburi province (Nadee district’s Kaeng Dinso sub-district, and Kabinburi district’s Ban Na, Muang Kao, Kabin, and Bo Thong sub-districts), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parst of Prachinburi province (Nadee district’s Kaeng Dinso sub-district, and Kabinburi district’s Ban Na, Muang Kao, Kabin, and Bo Thong sub-districts, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives.
Gist
The Royal Decree prescribes areas in parts of Prachinburi province (Nadee district’s Kaeng Dinso sub-district, and Kabinburi district’s Ban Na, Muang Kao, Kabin, and Bo Thong sub-districts) to be expropriated for construction of water supply and drainage system and appurtenant structures under Prachinburi’s Huay Somong Project under the Royal Initiative.
Title: Development of Digital ID through Face Verification Service (FVS)
The cabinet acknowledged and approved in principle the following proposals made by Ministry of Digital Economy and Society:
Acknowledged guideline for the development of Digital ID through Face Verification Service (FVS)
Approved for Ministry of Interior to develop and implement FVS system in both public and private organizations
Ministry of Digital Economy and Society is to provide recommendations on related operation to ensure safety and reliability of FVS system
The Budget Bureau is to provide budget to Ministry of Interior for the development and implementation of FVS system
Ministry of Interior or Ministry of Digital Economy and Society, as the case may be, is to report to the cabinet on the periodic basis on the progress of the development of Digital ID under the country’s digital infrastructure development
Title: Request for Government’s contingency fund (fund for emergency) for FY2021 Child Support Grant scheme for newborns
The cabinet approved the Government’s contingency fund (fund for emergency) for FY2021 Child Support Grant scheme for newborns at the total amount of 3,493,191,100 Baht. This is as proposed by Ministry of Social Development and Human Security to subsidize rearing of 2,227,029 newborns during the period of July-September 2021.
Gist
The Child Support Grant scheme for [newborn] children is a key national policy in the integrated life-span human development plan. As the scheme creates a social protection system by providing welfare support to children in poor households or households at risk of poverty, it not only reduces social inequality by guaranteeing that children receive their rights directly but also provides an opportunity for children to access other rights. The Child Support Grant is a means so that parents bring their children into the state services system in order that children will receive care so they have a better quality of life. The Child Support Grant can be used to pay for the costs associated with having a [newborn] child whether health, nutrition, clothing, or other items used to stimulate the development of the child.
Title: Assistance measures to alleviate people’s burden on education expenses
The cabinet approved the proposal made by Office of National Economic and Social Development Council to implement measures to alleviate people’s burden on education expenses (basic and tertiary education). Ministry of Education and Ministry of Higher Education, Sciences, Research and Innovation were assigned to proceed with the protocol identified under the Royal Decree authorizing Ministry of Finance to seek additional loan for economic and social problem solving, remedy, and rehabilitation as a result of spread of COVID-19, B.E. 2564, and to set up a mechanism to verify those who are eligible for the subsidies. The cabinet also emphasized the two ministries to ensure public understanding on the principle and detail of the measures.
Gist
1.       Ministry of Education’s COVID-19 measure to alleviate burden on educational expenses of students enrolled in the Thai basic educational system for the 1st semester of 2021, with the budget framework of 23 billion Baht:
Subsidy of 2,000 Baht/student
Financial support to be provided to educational institutions
Reduction or fixation of private schools’ tuition fee at the rate equivalent to 2020
2.       Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation’s COVID-19 measure to alleviate burden on educational expenses of students in both public and private universities (undergraduate and graduate levels) for the 1st semester of 2021, with the budget framework of 10 billion Baht:
Public universities: The discount on tuition and educational service fees to be subsidized by the Government and respective university at the ratio 6:4. The discount was set at 50% for the fees of not higher than 50,000 baht, 30% for the parts between 50,001 and 100,000 baht, and 10% for the parts of the fees at 100,001 baht and over
Private universities: Tuition and educational service fees to be subsidized by the Government at the rate of 5,000 Baht/student.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/44227