รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on February 1, 2022 via a video conference


วันจันทร์ที่ 7 กุมภาพันธ์ 2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on February 1, 2022 via a video conference
The cabinet met on February 1, 2022 via a video conference
The cabinet met on February 1, 2022 via a video conference. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Review of cabinet’s resolution on postponement of Thailand’s hosting of 6th Asian Indoor and Martial Arts Games
The cabinet approved the following proposals made by Ministry of Tourism and Sports:
Review the cabinet’s resolution, made on May 11, 2021, on postponement of Thailand’s hosting of 6th Asian Indoor and Martial Arts Games, and approved postponement of Thailand’s hosting of 6th Asian Indoor and Martial Arts Games from 2022 to 2023.
Approved the principle of Thailand’s hosting of 6th Asian Indoor and Martial Arts Games. Should there be a change in the timeframe due to the spread of COVID-19 or other unexpected situation that has no effect on the budget and the principle of the hosting of 6th Asian Indoor and Martial Arts Games, Ministry of Tourism and Sports may proceed and inform the cabinet later.
Gist
After careful consideration on the COVID-19 situation and a number of sports events to be organized this year, which may lessen the number of athletes wishing to compete at the 6th Asian Indoor and Martial Arts Games, Thailand’s organizing committee for the 6th Asian Indoor and Martial Arts Games proposed 2 rescheduling options to the Olympic Council of Asia who later notified the 6th Asian Indoor and Martial Arts Games that they acknowledged the reschedule of the 6th Asian Indoor and Martial Arts Games to November 17-26, 2023.
has notified Ministry of Tourism and Sports on the postponement of Thailand’s hosting of 6th Asian Indoor and Martial Arts Games from 2021 to 2022 due to the pandemic that has impacted countries throughout the world. The Ministry, therefore, proposed the postponement to the cabinet for its approval.
Title: Request for approval on hosting of WAMSB World Championship 2022
The cabinet approved in principle for Ministry of Culture to cohost the World Association of Marching Show Bands (WAMSB) World Championship 2022f  , which will be held on July 11-16, 2022 in Bangkok.
Gist
Earlier, the World Association of Marching Show Bands (WAMSB) had proposed for Thai Ministry of Culture to cohost WAMSB World Championship 2020, to which the cabinet had made approval. However, due to the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, WAMSB decided to cancel to event. This year, WAMSB has proposed once again for Ministry of Culture to cohost WAMSB World Championship 2022 during July 11-16, 2022. The Ministry, hence, submitted the proposal for the cabinet’s approval.
Title: Outcome of the 12th ASEAN Ministers Meeting on Rural Development and Poverty Eradication and related meetings
The cabinet acknowledged the outcome of the 12th ASEAN Ministers Meeting on Rural Development and Poverty Eradication (12th AMRDPE) and related meetings, as proposed by Ministry of Interior, and approved the following outcome documents:
Report of the Chair of the Senior officials meeting on Rural Development and Poverty Eradication (SOMRDPE) to the 12th ASEAN Ministers Meeting on Rural Development and Poverty Eradication
12th AMRDPE Joint Statement
Ministry of Interior is assigned to take the outcomes into action.
Gist
The 12th AMRDPE and related meetings were held via a teleconference during November 23-26, 2021 under theme: “Accelerating Recovery and Strengthening Resiliency of ASEAN for Sustainable Rural Development and Poverty Eradication”. Thailand was represented by Deputy Minister of Interior Songsak Thongsri.
Report of the Chair of the Senior officials meeting on Rural Development and Poverty Eradication (SOMRDPE) to the 12th ASEAN Ministers Meeting on Rural Development and Poverty Eradication acknowledges the progress of related strategic plans, i.e., ASEAN Comprehensive Recovery framework (ACRF), Bandar Seri Begawan Declaration on the Strategic and Holistic Initiative to link ASEAN Responses to Emergencies and Disasters (ASEAN SHIELD), and ASEAN Master Plan on Rural Development.
The 12th AMRDPE Joint Statement prescribes operation guideline in accordance with the ASEAN Vision 2025, ASEAN Socio-Cultural Community Blueprint 2025, and related SDGs, and cooperation between ASEAN+3, development partners, and stakeholders.
Title: Outcome of 2nd United Nations Global Sustainable Transport Conference
The cabinet acknowledged Ministry of Transport’s proposal on the outcome of the 2nd United Nations Global Sustainable Transport Conference, held during October 14-16, 2021 in Beijing, China PRC. Thailand was represented by Minister of Transport and the delegation.
Gist
The meeting was aimed to discuss sustainable transport development as key component to achieving 2030 SDGs, which is in line with Thailand’s 20-Year Transport System Development Strategy (2018-2037). At the 2nd United Nations Global Sustainable Transport Conference, discussion issues include: science, technology and innovation for sustainable transport; 2) sustainable transport and poverty eradication, wellbeing, and growth; 3) sustainable transport and regional development; 4) sustainable connectivity and transport; 5) role of business sector in sustainable transport development; 6) sustainable transport and green development; 7) sustainable transport policies; and 8) sustainable urban and transport.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/51317