รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on May 30, 2022


วันอังคารที่ 7 มิถุนายน 2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on May 30, 2022
The cabinet met on May 30, 2022. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Interest subsidy scheme for sugarcane farmers
The cabinet approved interest subsidy scheme for sugarcane farmers, as proposed by Ministry of Industry. The scheme will support farmers under the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives (BAAC)’s 3-year soft loan scheme (2022-2024), worth 2 billion Baht/year (the total of 6 billion Baht), for solving drought problem and purchasing agricultural machinery. The Government will subsidize 3% of the interest rate. The Prime Minister also disclosed that Agri – Map will be used to enhance sugarcane farming efficiency. The cabinet also approved amendment of the regulation of Cane and Sugar Board on registration of sugarcane institutions to streamline operation and enhance competitiveness.
Title: “National Thai Textile Day”
The cabinet agreed with Ministry of Culture’s proposal to declare August 12 of each year as “National Thai Textile Day” on occasion of the 90th birthday anniversary of Her Majesty Queen Sirikit, the Queen Mother on August 12, 2022. The declaration of “National Thai Textile Day” is aimed to remember Her Majesty’s great contributions and endless benevolence on promotion of Thai textile and local textile production and design in every province, which has created employment and generated revenues of the local people, leading to their better livelihood. The use of Thai traditional textiles has also contributed to the conservation of national culture and local wisdom in textiles and helped promote Thai textiles in the international markets.
Title: Draft outcome documents of the Prime Minister of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic’s official visit to Thailand
The cabinet approved the draft Five-Year Action Plan on Thai – Lao Strategic Partnership for Growth and Sustainable Development (2022 – 2026), on occasion of the Prime Minister of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic’s official visit to Thailand. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs or a representative was authorized to sign the document together with Lao PDR Minister of Foreign Affairs on June 1, 2022. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of FOeign Affairs may proceed and inform the cabinet later. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
The draft Thai – Lao Strategic Partnership for Growth and Sustainable Development (2022 – 2026) is developed with an aim to elevate relations and cooperation between the two countries to a “Strategic Partnership for Growth and Sustainable Development”. Key areas of cooperation include: 1) strong and stable politics, 2) economic cooperation for stable and sustainable recovery, 3) sustainable development, and 4) closer people-to-people relations.
The official visit of the Lao PDR Prime Minister will be an opportunity for the two countries to discuss a broad range of issues covering all dimensions of Thai-Lao relations in an atmosphere of friendship, which will benefit the people of both countries.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/55451