รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on August 2, 2022


วันจันทร์ที่ 8 สิงหาคม 2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on August 2, 2022
The cabinet met on August 2, 2022. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Report on the Industrial Economics Status for May 2022
The cabinet acknowledged Industrial Economic Report for May 2022 as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
Based on the report, manufacturing production index (MPI) contracted by 2.1% YOY partly due to the impact from the contracting global supply chain which has resulted in shortage of raw materials or parts.
Key industries that contributed to the contraction were automotive, hard disk drive, and plastic beads.
Key industries that have expanded well in May 2022 were oil refinery and electronic parts.
Title: Approval of budget under Royal Decree authorizing Ministry of Finance to seek additional loan for economic and social problem solving, remedy, and rehabilitation as a result of spread of COVID-19, B.E. 2564 for payment of remunerations and compensation to medical personnel and public health workers
The cabinet approved in principle the budget framework under Royal Decree authorizing Ministry of Finance to seek additional loan for economic and social problem solving, remedy, and rehabilitation as a result of spread of COVID-19, B.E. 2564, at the amount of 14,510.3059 million Baht, to be used for 6 programs on payment of remunerations and compensation to medical personnel and public health workers.
Gist
The 6 programs are:
1.       Bureau of Health Emergency Respond’s program for solving of emerging infectious disease (COVID-19)
2.       Office of Permanent Secretary to Ministry of Public Health’s personnel compensation program for extra duties
3.       Department of Medical Services’ program on relief and remedial compensation for people affected by COVID-19
4.       Department of Medical Sciences’ risk compensation program for performing COVID-19 related services
5.       Department of Mental Health’s risk compensation program for performing COVID-19 related services
6.       Department of Health’s support program for medical and public health administration for COVID-19 situation
The budget framework of 14,510.3059 million Baht is approved for the above 6 programs. Ministry of Public Health is also ordered to adjust the budget framework according to actual expenses as of June 2022. Disbursement of the budget should also be adjusted according to the activities undertaken under the 6 programs.
Title: Request for approval on draft agreement letter on Instrument of Accession to Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in Southeast Asia (TAC) by Denmark, Greece, the Netherlands, Oman, Qatar, UAE, and Ukraine
The cabinet approved the draft agreement letter on Instrument of Accession to Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in Southeast Asia (TAC) by Denmark, Greece, the Netherlands, Oman, Qatar, UAE, and Ukraine, and authorized Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs or a representative as signatory of the draft agreement letter. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
The Instrument of Accession to Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in Southeast Asia (TAC) by Denmark, Greece, the Netherlands, Oman, Qatar, and UAE will be signed during the 55th ASEAN Foreign Ministers' Meeting (55th AMM) on August 3, 2022. Accession of Ukraine to TAC is expected to be approved during the meeting.
At the event, the Instrument of Extension will be signed by Ministers of Foreign Affairs of 10 ASEAN member states, and the Instrument of Accession will be signed by Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the acceded states.
Title: Draft MOU between Thailand’s Ministry of Digital Economy and Society and Japan’s Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications on Information, Communication and Digital Technology
The cabinet approved the signing of an MOU between Thailand’s Ministry of Digital Economy and Society and Japan’s Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications on Information, Communication and Digital Technology. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against the principle approved by the cabinet, Ministry of Digital Economy and Society may proceed and inform the cabinet later of the amendment. Minister of Digital Economy and Society or a representative is authorized as signatory of the MOU. This is as proposed by Ministry of Digital Economy and Society.
Gist
The draft MOU between Thailand’s Ministry of Digital Economy and Society and Japan’s Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications is aimed to promote cooperation and exchange on information, communication and digital technology on the basis of equality, reciprocity, mutual respect and interest. Activities under the MOU include policy and technology cooperation, exchange of experts and representatives, organization of exhibitions, seminars, conference, and trainings, among others. The MOU will take effect for 5 years with possible extension upon mutual agreement.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/57743