รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on October 19, 2021


วันอาทิตย์ที่ 24 ตุลาคม 2564
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on October 19, 2021
The cabinet met on October 19, 2021
The cabinet met on October 19, 2021. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Ministerial Declaration of the High-Level Conference on COVID-19
The cabinet approved the draft Ministerial Declaration of the High-Level Conference on COVID-19. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interests, the Thai delegation may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Transport or a representative is authorized to adopt the draft Declaration. This is as proposed by Ministry of Transport.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Declaration of the High-Level Conference on COVID-19 (HLCC) demonstrates the joint intent of member countries in accordance with the objective of the HLCC 2021. Emphasis is made on the cooperation of member states and concerned agencies, such as ICAO, and WHO on post-COVID-19 aviation recovery, and guidelines on international traveling, as well as the climate change to promote future growth of aviation in a sustainable manner.
Title: Meeting outcome of the 5th Thailand-Japan High Level Joint Commission (HLJC)
The cabinet acknowledged the meeting outcome of the 5th Thailand-Japan High Level Joint Commission (HLJC), and assigned concerned agencies to proceed accordingly to assure tangible outcome. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
The meeting agreed on the drafting of a 5-year joint strategic plan for the development of Thailand-Japan economic partnership, which will be proposed at the 6th HLJC to commemorate the 135th anniversary of the diplomatic relations between Thailand and Japan.
Thailand also put forward economic cooperation with Japan in various aspects, i.e., 1) operation integration between Thailand’s Bio-Circular-Green (BCG) Economy and Japan’s Green Growth Strategy; 2) Engagement of Japanese investors in the transition into Zero Emission Vehicles (ZEVs); 3) Cooperation on e-commerce and digital commerce infrastructure development; 4) Japanese investment in the S-Curve industries, Smart City, and the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC); and 5) support on COVID-19 vaccines.
Title: ASEAN Leaders’ Statement on Advancing Digital Transformation in ASEAN
The cabinet approved the draft ASEAN Leaders’ Statement on Advancing Digital Transformation in ASEAN. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interests, Ministry of Digital Economy and Society may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Digital Economy and Society or a representative, as Thailand’s ASEAN Minister for Digital Affairs, is authorized to adopt the draft ASEAN Leaders’ Statement on Advancing Digital Transformation in ASEAN. This is as proposed by Ministry of Digital Economy and Society. The draft ASEAN Leaders’ Statement on Advancing Digital Transformation in ASEAN will later ben proposed at the 38th and 39th ASEAN Summit to be held during October 26-28, 2021.
Title: Draft Joint Statement of the 28th APEC Finance Ministers’ Meeting (APEC FMM)
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Joint Statement of the 28th APEC Finance Ministers’ Meeting (APEC FMM). Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interests, Ministry of Finance may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Finance or a representative is authorized to adopt the draft Joint Statement of the 28th APEC Finance Ministers’ Meeting (APEC FMM). This is as proposed by Ministry of Finance.
Gist
The draft Joint Statement of the 28th APEC Finance Ministers’ Meeting (APEC FMM) demonstrated joint intent of the APEC Finance Ministers to promote post-COVID-19 economic rehabilitation, and strength and sustainability of all sectors, and set the guideline for future cooperation.
Title: Draft documents to be adopted at the 38th and 39th ASEAN Summit and related meetings
The cabinet approved 22 documents to be adopted at the 38th and 39th ASEAN Summit and related meetings. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs or concerned agency may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. The Prime Minister or a representative is authorized to adopt the 22 draft documents. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
The 22 documents to be adopted by the Prime Minister or a representative at the 38th and 39th ASEAN Summit and related meetings are:
Draft Bandar Seri Begawan Declaration on the Strategic and Holistic Initiative to Link ASEAN Responses to Emergencies and Disasters (ASEAN SHIELD)
Draft Bandar Seri Begawan Declaration on the Importance of the Family for Community Development and Nation-Building
Draft ASEAN Leaders' Declaration on Upholding Multilateralism
Draft ASEAN Leaders' Declaration on the Blue Economy
ASEAN Leaders' Declaration on the Reformulation and Production of Healthier Food and Beverage Options
Draft Declaration on the Elimination of Bullying of Children in ASEAN
Draft Consolidated Strategy on the Fourth Industrial Revolution for ASEAN
Draft ASEAN Comprehensive Framework on Care Economy
Draft ASEAN Strategic Policy Framework on Promoting an Adaptive ASEAN Community of Greater Understanding, Tolerance and a Sense of Regional Agendas among the Peoples of ASEAN
Draft Terms of Reference for the High-Level Task Force on the ASEAN Community's Post-2025 Vision and the Roadmap
Draft ASEAN-U.S. Leaders' Statement on Digital Development
Draft ASEAN-India Joint Statement on Cooperation on the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific (AOIP)
Draft ASEAN-Russia Statement: Building United, Secure and Sustainable Region
Draft Statement of ASEAN and the Russian Federation on Cooperation in the Field of Addressing and Countering the World Drug Problem
Draft Comprehensive Plan of Action to Implement the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and the Russian Federation Strategic Partnership (2021-2025)
Draft ASEAN-China Joint Statement on Cooperation in Support of the ASEAN Comprehensive Recovery Framework
Draft Joint Statement of the 24th ASEAN-China Summit to Commemorate the 30th Anniversary of ASEAN-China Dialogue Relations
Draft Joint Statement of the 22nd ASEAN-Republic of Korea Summit on Advancing ASEAN-Republic of Korea Cooperation
Draft ASEAN Plus Three Leaders' Statement on Cooperation on Mental Health Amongst Adolescents and Young Children
Draft East Asia Summit Leaders' Statement on Sustainable and Green Recovery
Draft East Asia Summit Leaders' Statement on Economic Growth through Tourism Recovery
Draft East Asia Summit Leaders' Statement on Mental Health Cooperation

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/47337