รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on October 25, 2021.


วันจันทร์ที่ 1 พฤศจิกายน 2564
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on October 25, 2021.
The cabinet met on October 25, 2021.
The cabinet met on October 25, 2021. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Thailand’s membership in MARPOL Annex V
The cabinet approved Thailand’s membership in the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (MARPOL) Annex V, and assigned Ministry of Foreign Affairs to issue the Instrument of Accession to be submitted to Secretary General of the International Maritime Organization (IMO). This is as proposed by Ministry of Transport.
Gist
Annex V of the MARPOL Convention aims to eliminate and reduce the amount of garbage being dumped into the sea from ships. Its terms include all kinds of food, domestic and operational waste that are likely to be disposed of during the normal operation of the ship. Thailand’s membership in the MARPOL Annex V will be in accordance with the country’s obligation under United Nations Convention on the Law Of the Sea (UNCLOS), 1982.
Title: Request for approval on documents to be adopted at the 6th ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on Sports (AMMS-6) and related meetings
The cabinet approved 3 documents to be adopted at the 6th ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on Sports (AMMS-6). Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against the principle the cabinet has approved, Ministry of Tourism and Sports, through the Department of Physical Education, may proceed and inform the cabinet later of the amendment. Minister of Tourism and Sports or a representative is authoeized to adopt the 3 documents at the 6th ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on Sports (AMMS-6) and related meetings to be held via a teleconference.
Gist
The 3 documents to be adopted at the 6th ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on Sports (AMMS-6) are: 1) ASEAN Work Plan on Sports 2021-2025; 2) ASEAN-FIFA Collaboration Plan 2021-2022; and 3) Joint Statement of ASEAN Sports Ministers on Cementing Strong Foundation for ASEAN Athletes at the Southeast Asian Games.
Title: Regional Plan of Action for the Protection of Children From All Forms of Online Exploitation and Abuse in ASEAN and Regional Plan of Action on Implementing the ASEAN Declaration on the Rights of Children in the Context of Migration
The cabinet approved the following proposals made by Ministry of Social Development and Human Security:
Approval of the Regional Plan of Action for the Protection of Children From All Forms of Online Exploitation and Abuse in ASEAN, and Regional Plan of Action on Implementing the ASEAN Declaration on the Rights of Children in the Context of Migration. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Social Development and Human Security may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
Approved for Minister of Social Development and Human Security, as Thailand’s AMMSWD Minister, to send a notification letter on Thailand’s approval of the 2 documents to Brunei Darussalam, as ASEAN chair, at the first opportunity.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/47680