รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on April 26, 2022


วันจันทร์ที่ 2 พฤษภาคม 2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on April 26, 2022
The cabinet met on April 26, 2022
The cabinet met on April 26, 2022. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for audio/video, information and communication technology equipment, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for audio/video, information and communication technology equipment, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for audio/video, information and communication technology equipment, B.E. …, prescribes Thai Industrial Standard for 20 products under the category of audio/video, information and communication technology equipment under TIS 62368 Part 1-2563 (2020) to ensure quality and consumer safety. The 20 products are: 1. Radio, 2. Television, 3. Amplifier, 4. Disc player, 5. Video game console, 6. Wireless microphone receiver, 7. Radio receiver, 8. Television receiver, 9. Satellite receiver, 10. Speaker and amplifier, 11. Signal converter, 12. Signal processor, 13. Audio mixer, 14. Electronic musical instrument, 15. Audio and video player, 16. Network audio/video receiver, 17. Cable TV head-end receiver, 18. Audio and video converter, 19. Supply equipment (adaptor) for electronics, and 20. Supply equipment (adaptor) for smart phone and tablet.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation (No. …) B.E. … issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Revenue Taxes (Extension of tax measures for donation to Office of the Prime Minister for problem solving, remedy, and rehabilitation as a result of COVID-19 outbreak)
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation (No. …) B.E. … issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Revenue Taxes (Extension of tax measures for donation to Office of the Prime Minister for problem solving, remedy, and rehabilitation as a result of COVID-19 outbreak), as proposed by Ministry of Finance.
Gist
According to the draft Ministerial Regulation (No. …) B.E. … issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Revenue Taxes (Extension of tax measures for donation to Office of the Prime Minister for problem solving, remedy, and rehabilitation as a result of COVID-19 outbreak), personal income tax shall be exempted for the income equal to the amount donated, but when combined with donations under Section 47 (7) of the Revenue Code must not exceed 10% of assessable income after deducting expenses and other deductions. Corporate income tax shall be exempted for the income equal to the amount donated but when combined with expenditures for public charity or for public benefit under Section 65 (3) (b) of the Revenue Code must not exceed 2% of net profit.
The extension of tax privileges shall take effect for 1 year 10 months to end on December 31, 2023.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Revenue Taxes, (No. …) B.E. … (Tax measures for public health-related donation)
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Revenue Taxes, (No. …) B.E. … (Tax measures for public health-related donation), as proposed by Ministry of Finance.
Gist
Draft Ministerial Regulation issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Revenue Taxes, (No. …) B.E. … (Tax measures for public health-related donation) prescribes tax exemption for financial donation via the Revenue Department’s e-donation system to the following 6 foundations: 1) Siriraj Hospital Cancer Foundaion, 2) Rajvithi Hospital Foundation, 3) The King Pinklao Foundation, 4) Phramongkutklao Hospital Foundation, 5) Hospital for Tropical Diseases Foundation, and 6) Queen Sirikit Naval Hospital Foundation. All donations made to the above foundations allows a double deduction to the extent that the combined amount does not exceed 10% of net income (assessable income after allowances and deductions).
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Revenue Taxes, (No. …) B.E. … (Extension of tax measures for purchase of COVID-19 Antigen test self-test kits)
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation (No. …) B.E. … issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Revenue Taxes, (No. …) B.E. … (Extension of tax measures for purchase of COVID-19 Antigen test self-test kits), as proposed by Ministry of Finance.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation (No. …) B.E. … issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Revenue Taxes, (No. …) B.E. … (Extension of tax measures for purchase of COVID-19 Antigen test self-test kits) prescribes corporate income tax exemption for companies or juristic partnerships for income amounted to 50% of the expenditure paid for the purchase of Antigen test self-test kits for employee use.  The extension is made from April 1 to December 31, 2022.
Title: Bali Message on International Cooperation in Digital Diplomacy
The cabinet approved the Bali Message on International Cooperation in Digital Diplomacy “Unmasking Digital Diplomacy in the New Normal”. Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall notify of the approval in the first opportunity.
Gist
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Indonesia hosted a hybrid International Conference on Digital Diplomacy (ICDD) under the theme: “Digital Diplomacy for Crisis Management” on November 16, 2021. Thailand was represented by Deputy Director General,Department of Information Ministry of Foreign Affairs Natapanu Nopakun, who delivered a statement on “Digital Diplomacy for Crisis Management”.
Bali Message on International Cooperation in Digital Diplomacy will be driven through 5 key agendas: 1) Developing a government policy framework in support of digital diplomacy; 2) Crisis Management Through Digital Diplomacy; 3) Data Management to Support Digital Diplomacy; 4) Innovation to support SMEs; and 5) Digital empowerment and engagement.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/54085