รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met via a video conference on July 6, 2021.


วันจันทร์ที่ 19 กรกฎาคม 2564
พิมพ์
The cabinet met via a video conference on July 6, 2021.
The cabinet met via a video conference on July 6, 2021.
The cabinet met via a video conference on July 6, 2021. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on prorogation of first ordinary session of the National Assembly, B.E. …
The Cabinet approved in principle the Draft Royal Decree on prorogation of the first legislative ordinary session of the National Assembly, B.E. …, as proposed by the Cabinet Secretariat.
According to Section 121 of the Constitution of the Kingdom of Thailand, each year there shall be two ordinary sessions of the National Assembly, each of which shall last 120 days. The day on which the first sitting is held shall be considered the commencement date of the first annual ordinary session, and the commencement date of the second annual ordinary session shall be fixed by the House of Representatives.
In light of the above, the convocation and prorogation dates of the National Assembly are set as follows:
Year
First annual ordinary session (B.E.)
Second annual ordinary session (B.E.)
1
22 May 2562 – 18 September 2562
1 November 2562 – 28 February 2563
2
22 May 2563 – 18 September 2563
1 November 2563 – 28 February 2564
3
22 May 2564 – 18 September 2564
1 November 2564 – 28 February 2565
4
22 May 2565 – 18 September 2565
1 November 2565 – 28 February 2566
It is, therefore, appropriate for the first annual ordinary session of the National Assembly for B.E. 2564 to be prorogued from September 19, 2021 (2564) onward.
Title: Draft Ministerial Reguation on vehicle tolls for Bang Khun Thian – Pak Tho Intercity Motorway (M82) (Bang Khun Thian – Ban Phaeo Section)
The cabinet approved in principle vehicle tolls for Bang Khun Thian – Pak Tho Intercity Motorway Project (M82) (Bang Khun Thian – Ban Phaeo Section), as proposed by Ministry of Transport.
Gist
The Ministerial Regulation stipulates M82 (Bang Khun Thian – Ban Phaeo Section) as tollway. Tolls will be collected for different types of vehicles at the rates determined in the addendum of the Ministerial Regulation. The rates shall be adjusted every 5 years.
Title: Outcome of the 15th ASEAN Defence Ministers’ Meeting (15th ADMM) and 8th ASEAN Defence Ministers’Meeting Plus (8th ADMM-Plus)
The cabinet acknowledged outcome of the 15th ASEAN Defence Ministers’ Meeting (15th ADMM) and 8th ASEAN Defence Ministers’ Meeting Plus (8th ADMM-Plus), as proposed by Ministry of Defense.
Gist
The 15th ASEAN Defence Ministers’ Meeting (15th ADMM) and 8th ASEAN Defence Ministers’ Meeting Plus (8th ADMM-Plus) was convened via a teleconference on June 15-16, 2021. Deputy Prime Minister Gen. PRawit Wongsuwon, as head of the Thai delegation endorsed the outcome documents, namely, 1) Bandar Seri Begawan Declaration in Commemoration of the 15th Anniversary of the ADMM Towards a Future-Ready Peaceful and Prosperours ASEAN, and 2) Bandar Seri Begawan Declaration by the ADMM-Plus in Commemoration of the 15th Anniversary of the ADMM on Promoting a Future-Ready, Peaceful and Prosperous ASEAN.
The ASEAN-China Defence Ministers' Informal Meeting was conducted on the sidelines of the 15th ADMM to commemorate 30 years of ASEAN-China dialogue relations and strengthen ASEAN-China defence cooperation.
Title: Thailand’s negotiation framework for WTO Fisheries subsidies ministerial meeting
The cabinet approved the proposals made by Ministry of Commerce as follows:
Approved in principle Thailand’s negotiation framework for WTO Fisheries subsidies ministerial meeting as follows:
Eliminating subsidies for IUU fishing
Good aquatic resource management as a factor to determine a country’s fisheries subsidies
Special and Differential Treatment (SDT) for developing countries, including Thailand
Should there be a proposal for a dialogue or statement of intent that is in line with Thailand’s negotiation framework and is not against national interest, Ministry of Commerce may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
Authorized Minister of Commerce or a representative to attend the meeting on July 15, 2021, and adopt meeting document based on the principles mentioned above.
Title: Draft outcome document for APEC Informal Leaders’ Retreat
The cabinet approved the draft outcome document for APEC Informal Leaders’ Retreat (Statement of the Informal APEC Leaders’ Retreat on COVID-19). Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ministry of Commerce may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. The Prime Minister or a representative is authorized to adopt the outcome document. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
The outcome document was endorsed at the APEC Informal Leaders’ Retreat to focus on economic and healthcare responses in three dimensions: (1) Secure, balanced, inclusive, and sustainable growth: building flexibility of the public healthcare system against current and future impacts, and implementing economic stimulus measures, especially those that contribute to tackling the climate change; (2) Innovation and digitalization: harnessing innovations that enable people and businesses to emerge stronger; and 3) Trade and investment: promoting trade and investment to enable a strong economic recovery. The World Trade Organization is expected to deliver tangible results that support the recovery from the health and economic crisis.
Title: Draft Ministerial Declaration for High-Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development (HLPF)
The cabinet approved the draft Ministerial Declaration for High-Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development (HLPF). Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Foreign Affairs or Thai Permanent Representative to the United Nations at New York is authorized to endorse the document. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
Draft Ministerial Declaration for High-Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development (HLPF) is aimed to demonstrate joint political intent of UN member countries in taking action to achieve the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals, and responding to and recover from the global COVID-19 crisis.
Title: “Im Jai” loan scheme
The cabinet has made approval to the new loan measure called “Im Jai” loan, as proposed by Ministry of Finance, to help out entrepreneurs in food and beverage sector who are impacted by the new wave of COVID-19. Target groups are food shops, restaurants, and eateries or booths in department stores' food courts.
The loans of total 2 billion Baht will be granted by the Government Savings Bank. The entrepreneurs may request for the clean loan of up to 100,000 Baht with an annual interest rate of 3.99% for no more than 5 years. Payment respite will be granted for the first 6 months. The Government will also subsidize NPLs at the rate of not over 50% of the approved budget (not over 1 billion Baht). The Im Jai loan may be requested at the Government Savings Bank from now until December 31, 2021.
Title: Memorandum of Understanding between the Royal Thai Police and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Russian Federation on Combating Transnational Crime and Developing Police Cooperation
The cabinet approved the following proposals made by the Royal Thai Police:
Approved the draft Memorandum of Understanding between the Royal Thai Police and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Russian Federation on Combating Transnational Crime and Developing Police Cooperation
Authorized Commissioner-General of the Royal Thai Police or a representative as signatory of the MOU
Approved for the Royal Thai Police to amend the draft MOU in parts that are not gist without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
Gist
The draft Memorandum of Understanding between the Royal Thai Police and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Russian Federation on Combating Transnational Crime and Developing Police Cooperation is aimed to promote international cooperation on combating transnational crime. Scope of cooperation includes corporate crimes, child pornography and sexual exploitation, terrorism, corruption and money laundering, transnational economic crimes, illegal migration, illegal arms trade, narcotics, among others. The draft MOU shall take effect from the day it is signed.
Title: Report on outcome of the 14th ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on Transnational Crime (AMMTC)
The cabinet acknowledged report on the outcome of the 14th ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on Transnational Crime (AMMTC)
Title: 3rd Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) Between Thailand and Asian Development Bank (ADB) (2021-2025)
The cabinet acknowledged the 3rd Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) Between Thailand and Asian Development Bank (ADB) (2021-2025), which is earlier approved by ADB management committee. This is as proposed by Ministry of Finance.
Gist
The 3rd Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) Between Thailand and Asian Development Bank (ADB) (2021-2025) is aimed to promote comprehensive and sustainable development, in line with the 12th National Economic and Social Development Plan (B.E. 2560-2564), through strengthening economic growth and competitiveness (e.g., innovative competitiveness enhancement, reduction of gap in accessing infrastructure, regional connectivity, etc.), promoting resilience and sustainable development (e.g., renewable energy investment, environmental sustainability, etc.), and supporting other national strategies.
Title: Request for approval of the outcome document of Special ASEAN-Russia Foreign Ministers’ Meeting
The cabinet approved the draft Statement of the Special ASEAN-Russia Foreign Ministers’ Meeting. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Foreign Affairs or a representative is authorized to endorse the draft Statement. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
The draft Statement of the Special ASEAN-Russia Foreign Ministers’ Meeting demonstrates political intent of ASEAN and Russia Foreign Ministers to promote cooperation, as strategic partners, especially on public healthcare cooperation in a bid to tackle the spread of COVID-19, and on post-COVID-19 economic and social rehabilitation, as well as the cooperation in security, ICT, disaster management and emergency response, science and technology, and social and cultural affairs.
Title: Draft Political Declaration of the Online Mid-term Ministerial Conference of the Non-Aligned Movement
The cabinet approved the draft Political Declaration of the Online Mid-term Ministerial Conference of the Non-Aligned Movement. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Foreign Affairs or a representative is authorized to endorse the draft Political Declaration. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
Gist of the draft Political Declaration of the Online Mid-term Ministerial Conference of the Non-Aligned Movement is as follows:
Reaffirm the vision, principles and objectives of the Non-Aligned Movement, articulated in Bandung (1955) and Belgrade (1961), in the efforts to achieve a world of peace, equality, cooperation and well-being for all
Express serious concern over the rapid spread of COVID-19, which poses a major challenge to humanity and requires a global response based on unity, solidarity and renewed multilateral cooperation
Express deep concern about the rise in discrimination, hate speech, stigmatization, racism and xenophobia related to the pandemic, and calls upon Member States, and all relevant actors, to promote inclusion and unity in response to the COVID-19 pandemic
Reiterate full support to the values of multilateralism and international cooperation, which underpin the Charter of the United Nations and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, in promoting and supporting the three pillars of the United Nations – peace and security, sustainable development and human rights
Emphasize that armed conflicts, aggressive expansionist policies, terrorism, separatism, transnational organized crime and extremism coupled with human rights abuses, financial crises and environmental degradation continue to affect millions of people around the world
The Online Mid-term Ministerial Conference of the Non-Aligned Movement will be hosted by the Republic of Azerbaijan, as chair of NAM, during July 13-14, 2021 under the theme: “Non-Aligned Movement at the center of multilateral efforts in responding to global challenges”.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/43664