รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on August 9, 2022


วันจันทร์ที่ 15 สิงหาคม 2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on August 9, 2022
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Request for approval of Government’s contingency fund for emergency (FY2022) for implementation of water resource management efficiency enhancement scheme during the rainy season of 2022, and water conservation for the 2022/2023 drought season
The cabinet approved allocation of Government’s contingency fund for emergency (FY2022) for implementation of water resource management efficiency enhancement scheme during the rainy season of 2022, and water conservation for the 2022/2023 drought season, as proposed by Office of National Water Resources.
Gist
The approved budget will be allocated to 1,361 projects under 5 ministries and 13 agencies for 1) repairing and improving hydro constructions, 2) removing and clearing water blockage, 3) dredging canals and waterways, 4) preparing and repairing related machineries and equipment, and 5) increasing water budget for use in the drought season. These projects will be undertaken in the flood/drought-prone areas.
The 5 ministries and 13 agencies to implement these 1,361 projects are:
1.       Ministry of Defense (by the Royal Thai Army and Armed Forces Development Command): 32 projects for the budget framework of 23.31 million Baht
2.       Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation (by Hydro Informatics Institute (Public Organization): 2 projects for the budget framework of 76.45 million Baht
3.       Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (by the Royal Irrigation Department and Department of Royal Rainmaking and Agricultural Aviation: 411 projects for the budget framework of 1,190.43 million Baht
4.       Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment (by Water Resources Department and Department of Groundwater Resources): 139 projects for the budget framework of 432.91 million Baht
5.       Ministry of Interior (by municipalities, sub-district municipalities, cities, provinces, provincial administrations, and sub-district administrations): 777 projects for the budget framework of 2,296.70 million Baht
Once all the projects are completely executed, it is expected that 35,723 rai of land and 36,745 households will be benefited from an increase of water level by approx. 34.02 million cubic meters. Approx. 4.74 million tons of hyacinth/waterweeds will be gotten rid of, and 394 hydro constructions will be repaired and improved. These projects will also promote local employment and stimulate construction material business.
Title: Official Thai spelling and pronunciation for “Republic of Türkiye”
The cabinet acknowledged the proposal of Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the change of official name of the Republic of Turkey to “Republic of Türkiye”, and the Thai spelling and pronunciation for the country’s new official name, as approved by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Don Pramudwinai.
Gist
Following an official letter submitted to the United Nations by the Republic of Türkiye, requesting the use of “Türkiye” instead of “Turkey” for all affairs, the country's name has been officially changed to Türkiye at the UN. The Embassy of the Republic of Türkiye to Thailand has also submitted request for the change of name to the Thai authority for all affairs related to bilateral relations and cooperation.
Upon the request of Ministry of Foreign Affairs to deliberate spelling and pronunciation of the “Republic of Türkiye” in Thai, the Royal Society of Thailand has given its comment that the name of the country remains unchanged for the sake of public convenience and familiarity. In light of this, one can use either “สาธารณรัฐตุรกี” or “สาธารณรัฐทูร์เคีย” for “Republic of Türkiye”, and either “ตุรกี” or “ทูร์เคีย” for “Türkiye”, as appropriate.
Title: Draft 5-Year Thailand-Mongolia Cooperation Plan (2022-2027)
The cabinet approved the draft 5-Year Thailand-Mongolia Cooperation Plan (2022-2027). Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Fffairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
The draft 5-Year Thailand-Mongolia Cooperation Plan (2022-2027) covers cooperation in 5 areas, namely, 1) trade: to increase bilateral trade value to US$100 million by 2027; 2) investment: to increase cumulative investment value to US$1.5 billion by 2027; 3) tourism and culture: to increase number of tourists both ways and promote cultural exchange; 4) agriculture: to promote trade of agro products and scientific and technical cooperation in agriculture; and 5) technical cooperation: to promote sustainable socio-economic development, and technical cooperation in target areas of mutual interest, e.g., health, and tourism.
The 5-Year Thailand-Mongolia Cooperation Plan (2022-2027) will take effect after the notification of Thai side to Mongolia on completion of Thailand’s internal process. The draft plan has been scrutinized and approved by Ministry of Tourism and Sports, Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperative, Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation, Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Commerce, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Education, Ministry of Industry, and the BOI Office.
Title: Draft Record of Discussions for 14th Joint Commission for Bilateral Cooperation (JC) and 5th Joint Development Strategy (JDS) for Border Areas between Thailand and Malaysia
The cabinet approved the draft Record of Discussions for 14th Joint Commission for Bilateral Cooperation (JC) and 5th Joint Development Strategy (JDS) for Border Areas between Thailand and Malaysia. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Fffairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs is authorized to adopt the draft Record of Discussions on August 10, 2022. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
The draft Record of Discussions for 14th Joint Commission for Bilateral Cooperation (JC) prescribes progress of implementation in political and security, economic, and socio-cultural areas, as well as other new areas of cooperation. The draft Record of Discussions for the 5th Joint Development Strategy (JDS) summarizes outcome of discussion on the implementations under the JDS framework, and demonstrates the joint intent to promote economic cooperation along the Thailand-Malaysia border area.
Title: Outcome of ASEAN-U.S. Special Summit
The cabinet acknowledged Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ report on the outcome of the ASEAN-U.S. Special Summit, held in Washington D.C., U.S.A. during May 12-13, 2022, and assigned concerned agencies to proceed accordingly.
Gist
On May 12-13, 2022, the Prime Minister, together with ASEAN leaders and ASEAN Secretary-General met with the U.S. delegation, led by President Joe Biden. Discussion was made toward “comprehensive strategic partnership”, covering the issues of ASEAN-U.S. relations, economic recovery, climate change, marine cooperation, and regional and international conflicts.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/58015