รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM’s statement delivered at working lunch focuses on maritime cooperation and health/pandemic recovery


วันเสาร์ที่ 14 พฤษภาคม 2565
พิมพ์
​PM’s statement delivered at working lunch focuses on maritime cooperation and health/pandemic recovery
​PM’s statement delivered at working lunch focuses on maritime cooperation and health/pandemic recovery
May 13, 2022, at 1130hrs (Washington DC, U S.A. local time), at the U.S. Department of State, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha attended and delivered a statement at the working lunch hosted by the Honorable Kamala Devi Harris, Vice President of the United States of America. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of his statement as follows:
The Prime Minister thanked U.S. Vice President for the warm welcome, and agreed on the Vice President’s statement, “The History of the 21st Century Will Be Written in the Asia-Pacific”. He was of the view that ASEAN and the U.S. actively cooperate to overcome various new challenges.
According to the Prime Minister, priorities should be made on COVID-19 response and post-pandemic recovery, and promotion of long-term public health security. ASEAN and the U.S. may tighten cooperation in R&D on medicines and medical supplies, expansion of regional vaccine production base, and development of modern medicine in a bid to promote public health security and enhance innovation capacity of the region. Genomics Thailand, located in the country’s Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC), is an important step forward for the development of Thai public healthcare system.
Human capital development will also enhance the region’s strength and immunity, particularly in the 4IR era when digital technology plays an important role in all dimensions. The U.S. may consider investing and providing support to ASEAN’s digital startups and MSMEs. The Prime Minister also mentioned Thailand Digital Velley in the EECi.
The Prime Minister also shared his thoughts on maritime cooperation which will benefit both ASEAN and the U.S., the two regions connected by the Pacific Ocean. Maritime security management on the basis of an agreed upon framework of rules and procedures will enable all concerned parties to utilize marine resources in a sustainable manner. Thailand has, therefore, placed great importance on promoting maritime cooperation, especially in the fight against the IUU fishing. The country also proposed the establishment of ASEAN Network for Combating IUU Fishing (AN-IUU) as a center for sharing information and strengthening regional collaboration against IUU fishing. ASEAN welcomes the U.S.’s sharing of standard practices and technology transfer to enhance efficiency in monitoring, control and surveillance of IUU fishing in the region.
The Prime Minister stated that constructive cooperation would bring about sustainable development and growth in the region, and hoped that ASEAN and the U.S. commit to advancing cooperation and promoting stable relationship into the new era.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/54564