รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand and EU to push forward free trade and investment cooperation for post-COVID economic rehabilitation


วันจันทร์ที่ 5 กรกฎาคม 2564
พิมพ์
Thailand and EU to push forward free trade and investment cooperation for post-COVID economic rehabilitation
Thailand and EU to push forward free trade and investment cooperation for post-COVID economic rehabilitation
July 2, 2021, at 1400hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Pirkka Tapiola, Ambassador of the European Union to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his completion of tenure. Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister thanked EU Ambassador for his active role in promoting Thailand-EU relations and in EU’s lifting of “yellow card” from Thailand for its actions against illegal fishing, as well as his clarification on Thailand’s political situation to EU member countries which has led to the restoration of full political contact. He also congratulated the development of cooperation, i.e., the EU's Indo-Pacific Strategy, Thailand-EU FTA, and Partnership and Cooperation Agreement (PCA), which are relevant with the SDGs and Green Growth both parties are committed to. Thailand hopes that the cooperation would lead to an upgrade of strategic partnership between Thailand and EU.
The EU Ambassador congratulated Thailand-EU comprehensive relations, and affirmed the latter’s commitment to continue cooperating with Thailand in all dimensions, especially in security, free trade and investment. He also stressed that Thailand remains on the EU Council’s list of epidemiologically safe third-countries, and expressed hope that the country would continue its vaccination to cover both the Thai and foreign residents. EU stands ready to cooperate with Thailand in tackling the spread of COVID-19.
Both parties came to terms to push forward free trade and investment cooperation for post-COVID economic rehabilitation. The Prime Minister believes that Thailand’s Bio-Circular-Green Economy (BCG) could be connected with the European Green Deal (EGD), and extended an invitation for EU investors to invest in Thailand, especially in EEC, EECi, and transport network development linking Thailand’s neighboring countries under the Thailand+1 policy.
The Prime Minister also affirmed, about Thailand’s political situation, that the country’s checks and balances under the Constitution remains intact, both the Opposition parties’ constitutional role, and the people’s freedom of expression under the legal framework. The Thai Government is ready to listen to the demands made by protestors, and sincerely strives to address social and economic problems.
On the Myanmar situation, Thailand and EU agreed to join hands in promoting regional development and stability. The Prime Minister affirmed Thailand’s wish for all sides in Myanmar to exercise tolerance and stop the violence against common people. The country also endorses the ‘D4D’ concept and ASEAN’s five-point consensus as the way forward for Myanmar’s peace and stability, and strongly adheres to the humanitarian principle. With Thailand’s experiences, the Myanmar refugees will not be forced back involuntarily. Thailand fully supports peaceful solutions to the problem.
On regional cooperation, both parties were pleased with EU-ASEAN strategic partnership, and hoped for post-COVID economic rehabilitation through the upgrade of aviation connectivity and ASEAN-EU FTA negotiation. Thailand, as ASEAN’s SDGs Coordinator, appreciates EU’s support for ASEAN Centre for Sustainable Development Studies and Dialogue (ACSDSD).

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/43450