รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM pleased with Thailand’s elevation to Tier 2 in 2022 Trafficking in Persons (TIP) Report


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 21 กรกฎาคม 2565
PM pleased with Thailand’s elevation to Tier 2 in 2022 Trafficking in Persons (TIP) Report
PM pleased with Thailand’s elevation to Tier 2 in 2022 Trafficking in Persons (TIP) Report
July 20, 2022, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha was pleased with U.S. Department of State’s 2022 Trafficking in Persons (TIP) Report which elevates Thailand to Tier 2.
On July 19, 2022, the U.S. Department of State released its 2022 Trafficking in Persons (TIP) Report, according to which Thailand is ranked in ‘Tier 2’, an upgrade from ‘Tier 2 Watch List’ last year.
According to the 2022 TIP Report, the Thai Government demonstrated overall increasing efforts for the elimination of trafficking, considering the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on its anti-trafficking capacity. These efforts included increasing the number of trafficking investigations, finalizing a national referral mechanism (NRM) that authorized a 45-day reflection period, establishing a new trafficking victim identification center, and developing guidelines for labor officials to refer suspected trafficking victims to multidisciplinary teams, among others.
The U.S. Department of State also honored 6 TIP heroes from across the world who have devoted their lives to the fight against human trafficking, among whom is Ms. Apinya Tajit, Deputy Director of the Stella Maris Seafarer’s Center. Khun Apinya is recognized for her tireless assistance to workers exploited in forced labor. She has also played an active role in raising awareness of child trafficking.
The Government Spokesperson added that the Prime Minister has placed high priority on the implementation of anti-trafficking in person policy, and announced it as a national agenda to seriously mobilize operations against human trafficking, and protect human integrity in accordance with the humanitarian principle which Thailand has always adhered to. The country stands ready to work together with various sectors, both domestic and overseas, to eradicate trafficking in person and forced labor of all forms. The Prime Minister also took the opportunity to thank all concerned sectors and individuals for joining forces in fighting against human trafficking, and expressed hope that they continue with this endeavor in order for Thailand to be free from such problem.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/57083