รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM delivers statement at “High-level Dialogue on Energy Summit 2021”


วันเสาร์ที่ 25 กันยายน 2564
พิมพ์
PM delivers statement at “High-level Dialogue on Energy Summit 2021”
PM delivers statement at “High-level Dialogue on Energy Summit 2021”
September 25, 2021, at 0400hrs (1700hrs in New York, USA), Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha delivered a statement via a teleconference at the “High-level Dialogue on Energy Summit 2021”, held at the UN Headquarters in New York, USA. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of his statement as follows:
According to the Prime Minister, today’s meeting is a great opportunity for countries to deliberate on climate change-related challenges, and a global roadmap towards the Sustainable Development Goals. The Royal Thai Government attaches great importance to Energy Transition and the implementation of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goal 7, which ensures access to clean, affordable and reliable energy services, in order to achieve the Net Zero Carbon Emissions target and maintain global temperature rise within 1.5 to 2 degrees Celsius as stipulated in the Paris Agreement. Thailand is now working on the National Energy Plan. The goal is to drive the country towards a low-carbon economy and society by increasing the proportion of clean energy to no less than 50 percent of the new electricity generation. Thailand is also working on a long-term strategic plan for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in order to achieve the Carbon Neutrality Goal by 2065 – 2070.
The Prime Minister added that all countries should work together to lay the foundation for the post-COVID-19 era, developing with peace and prosperity, especially with regards to the environment and nature. Human behavior should be adjusted so that a balance could be reached between humans, other living things, and the environment, while resources should be optimized not maximized. On this front, Thailand has adopted a new approach called the “Bio-Circular-Green” (or BCG) Economy Model. This Model applies new technologies and innovation to further build on Thailand's strengths, namely agriculture, industry, biodiversity and cultural diversity, to create a balance between economic development, society and environmental sustainability. This BCG model can be one of the approaches to achieve Thailand's Carbon Neutrality goal by promoting the production and the use of low-carbon energy. For example, the so-called 30@30 policy will enhance the electric vehicle industry, where electric vehicles will account for 30 percent of the total domestic automobile production by 2030.
In closing, the Prime Minister reaffirmed Thailand’s determination to support the achievement of the UN Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement, which will lead to our shared future of sustainable economic development and energy security.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/46193