รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM pleased with success of 2nd ASEAN-U.S. Special Summit


วันอังคารที่ 17 พฤษภาคม 2565
​PM pleased with success of 2nd ASEAN-U.S. Special Summit
​PM pleased with success of 2nd ASEAN-U.S. Special Summit
May 16, 2022, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha was pleased with the success of the 2nd ASEAN-U.S. Special Summit, held during May 12-13, 2022 in Washington D.C., U.S.A., at which all concerned parties met in person, and discussed ways and means to intensify tangible cooperation in various areas for mutual interest toward comprehensive strategic partnership.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Prime Minister took the opportunity to underscore 3 areas of cooperation between ASEAN and the U.S.:
1. Promoting U.S.’s constructive role in the region through its cooperation with ASEAN and other regional key players. Priority should be made on humanitarian assistance to those affected by all the ongoing global situations.
2. Promoting economic cooperation. Thailand and ASEAN could become essential to the U.S. supply chain, especially in EV manufacturing, medical supplies and industry, and biotechnology. The Prime Minister also extended an invitation to the U.S. business sector to expand their investment in Thailand. In 2023, U.S. Department of Commerce will hold its 2023 flagship trade mission – Trade Winds Business Forum – in Southeast Asia, which will feature Thailand as its regional hub. Thailand also endorses ASEAN-U.S. cooperation in the development of regional digital infrastructure, technology, and innovation, and capacity enhancement of ASEAN’s digital workforces.
3. Promoting cooperation on climate action to achieve climate change targets for the sake of the future generations. The Prime Minister also urged all sides to help the people who have been affected by various challenges, i.e., energy crisis, goods shortage, and poverty, without leaving anyone behind.
The Government Spokesperson added that the Prime Minister, in his statement delivered during the meeting between ASEAN leaders and the U.S. President, emphasized that Thailand would like to see an end to the current international conflict and war which have cost the lives of many people, and expressed confidence that the situation could be alleviated with the cooperation of all concerned parties. He was of the view that all sides prepare for the post-war recovery and remedy plan in tandem with seeking ways and means to end the war.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/54627