รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM emphasizes the need to “strengthen multilateralism for shared growth” at ASEM 13


วันศุกร์ที่ 26 พฤศจิกายน 2564
พิมพ์
PM emphasizes the need to “strengthen multilateralism for shared growth” at ASEM 13
PM emphasizes the need to “strengthen multilateralism for shared growth” at ASEM 13
November 26, 2021, at 1500hrs (Thailand), at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha, on behalf of Thailand, delivered a statement via a teleconference at the 2nd plenary session of the 13th Asia-Europe Meeting (ASEM 13) under theme: “COVID-19, health and socio-economic recovery”. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist as follows:
Cambodian Prime Minister welcomed and highlighted key issues of the meeting, including dealing with the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, promoting economic and social recovery and building a stronger future.  He emphasized that mutual dialogue is a good solution for both regions. In addition, the Cambodian Prime Minister supported comprehensive and inclusive access to vaccines, which will encourage travel and maintain trade supply chains.
President of the European Commission emphasized four key issues: 1. Equal access to COVID - 19 vaccines 2. Encourage economic development with environmental considerations 3. Promote international trade emphasizing competition on an equal basis and 4. Support connectivity and infrastructure development, especially digital development.
The Prime Minister emphasized that the meeting was a good opportunity for leaders from Europe and Asia to dialogue to find common solutions to current global problems, whether they be, COVID-19, and the climate change, which have stemmed from imbalance. These global problems further reaffirm the need to “strengthen multilateralism for shared growth”, as no country can tackle these challenges alone. The most important thing is to turn multilateralism into tangible cooperation in the post-COVID-19 world, to enhance human security for the benefit of the more than 4 billion people in the two regions. The Prime Minister also share with the Meeting the lessons learned from Thailand’s experience in combating the COVID-19 pandemic, and to propose cooperation areas between Asia and Europe in the Next Normal, in order to prevent such a crisis from reoccurring.
Firstly, the recovery process needs to be balanced. Asia and Europe should cooperate to promote economic recovery policies that take into account the balance of all things. Thailand is pursuing the Bio-Circular-Green, or BCG, economic model as a strategy to transform the country to the Next Normal in a balanced, inclusive and sustainable manner. Thailand has also set the goal of achieving carbon neutrality by 2050, and Net Zero Emissions in 2065. If Asia and Europe are able to enhance cooperation in areas such as green financing and technological transfer, as well as green start-ups and SMEs, many countries, including Thailand, would be able to achieve a balanced recovery and meet these targets ahead of schedule.
Secondly, the recovery effort must make full use of digital technology. Asia and Europe have made use of digital technology to facilitate exchange among each other, such as in the ASEM workshop on youth learners’ virtual mobility using digital platforms, and the ASEAN Business Advisory Council’s initiative to promote comprehensive digital trade connectivity which will help facilitate fast and efficient trade and investment between our two regions.
Lastly, the recovery effort must focus on enhancing connectivity. The COVID-19 pandemic emphasized the importance of connectivity between Asia and Europe. Thailand has started to safely open up to international travel. I thus believe that Asia and Europe should expedite our discussions on the mutual acceptance and recognition of digital vaccine certificates to facilitate travel between the two regions. The Prime Minister took the opportunity to congratulated adoption of the paper on “The Way Forward on ASEM Connectivity”, which will bring about enhanced connectivity between the two regions for the benefit of the people. And this will help us to build a secure and prosperous future that leaves no one, and no country, behind.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/48758