รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM congratulates inscription of Kaeng Krachan Forest Complex to World Heritage List


วันพุธที่ 28 กรกฎาคม 2564
พิมพ์
PM congratulates inscription of Kaeng Krachan Forest Complex to World Heritage List
PM congratulates inscription of Kaeng Krachan Forest Complex to World Heritage List
July 27, 2021, Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisrti disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha congratulated the inscription of Kaeng Krachan Forest Complex to the World Heritage List, the decision made by UNESCO at the World Heritage Committee’s 44th session, and ordered concerned agencies to continue promoting balances and conservation of biodiversity of the Kaeng Krachan Forest Complex. The Government stands ready to provide support in accordance with the international standard in order to carry on the legacy and merit of the World Heritage site to the future generations, and to promote revenue generation from conservation tourism for the benefit of the nearby communities.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Kaeng Krachan Forest Complex was recognized for its Outstanding Universal Value, in line with item 10 of the Operational Guidelines for the Implementation of the World Heritage Convention which statesthat nominated properties shall “contain the most important and significant natural habitats for in-situ conservation of biologicaldiversity, including those containing threatened species of Outstanding Universal Value from the point of view of science or conservation”.
Kaeng Krachan Forest Complex covers 464,000 hectares and spans across the three provinces of Prachuap Khiri Khan, Phetchaburi, and Ratchaburi. It is rich in biodiversity with semi-evergreen/dry evergreen, moist evergreen and some mixed deciduous forest, montane forest, and deciduous dipterocarp forest. The area has abundant birdlife, including several globally threatened species, and is home to the critically endangered Siamese Crocodile, the endangered Asiatic Wild Dog and several other vulnerable wildlife species. There are also eight resident cat species, including the endangered Tiger and Fishing Cat, the vulnerable Clouded Leopard and Marbled Cat, the Jungle Cat, and Leopard Cat. Kaeng Krachan Forest Complexalso protects headwaters of many important rivers such as Phetchaburi, Pranburi, and Phachi Rivers. It is the third natural heritage site after Thungyai-Huai Kha Khaeng Wildlife Sanctuaries was listed in 1991 and Dong Phayayen-Khao Yai Forest Complex in 2005, and is Thailand’s 6th site inscribed on the World Heritage List.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/44185