รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Bilateral meeting between Thai and Japanese PMs to follow up on and take forward outcomes of their meeting in Thailand early this month


วันเสาร์ที่ 28 พฤษภาคม 2565
พิมพ์
Bilateral meeting between Thai and Japanese PMs to follow up on and take forward outcomes of their meeting in Thailand early this month
Bilateral meeting between Thai and Japanese PMs to follow up on and take forward outcomes of their meeting in Thailand early this month
May 26, 2022, at 18.00 hrs (JST), at the Prime Minister's Official Residence, Tokyo, Japan, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha had a bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Fumio Kishida of Japan. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The two Prime Ministers expressed pleasure to meet with each other once again after the official visit of the Japanese Prime Minister early this month. The Thai Prime Minister commended success of the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework (IPEF), in which he participated via the videoconference on May 23rd. Thailand stands ready to work together with the U.S., Japan, and other countries in crafting the collective approach and detail for each cooperation area for mutual interest.
The Japanese Prime Minister was pleased with the meeting which was a good opportunity to follow up on and take forward outcomes of the meeting in Thailand early this month. He also noted the Thai Prime Minister’s missions while in Japan, aside from attending the 27th Nikkei Forum, which include a meeting with president of Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) to discuss trade and investment promotion of the Japanese private sector in Thailand, and a visit to Haneda Innovation City. He hoped for the Thai Prime Minister’s success in all the missions for mutual interest of the two countries.
The two Prime Ministers were also pleased with continuous exchange of high-level visits after the ease of travel measures of both Thailand and Japan. They also discussed relations and cooperation in various areas:
On economic cooperation, the Prime Minister thanked Japan for considering Thailand’s proposal to expand KOSEN educational system in Thailand and the establishment of KOSEN Education Center, which helps promote the country as personnel training and development hub of the ASEAN region and Mekong sub-region.
The Japanese Prime Minister also expressed Japan’s readiness to promote investment expansion of the Japanese private sector in the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC) in the fields of technologies and innovations.
Both parties also committed to push through the concept of “Asia Zero-Emissions Community”, an initiative the Japanese Prime Minister proposed during his official visit to Thailand. The Prime Minister noted that Japan’s Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) has discussed with Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Energy Supattanapong Punmeechaow on the matter, and Thailand agreed to cooperate with Japan under the framework to promote carbon-free society, in line with both the countries’ goal to reach carbon neutrality, Thailand’s BCG economic model, and Japan’s Green Growth Strategy.
On tourism, the Prime Minister was pleased to learn that Thailand is one of the four countries from which Japan has planned to accept small experimental package tours, in addition to businessmen, students, and skilled workers, as part of its ease of measures for entering the country. He also extended an invitation to Japanese tourists to visit Thailand. The Japanese Prime Minister was content with the opportunity to strengthen tourism cooperation with Thailand.
R
With regard to the cooperation under the ASEAN framework, Thailand, as the Country Coordinator for 2021- 2024 ASEAN-Japan Dialogue Relations, stands ready to further reinforce the ASEAN-Japan Strategic Partnership in all dimensions. The Japanese Prime Minister affirmed Japan’s commitment to forge constructive cooperation for mutual interest toward strong and sustainable recovery of the region, supply chain, regional and people-to-people connectivity, and sustainable development.
On the cooperation under the APEC framework, the Prime Minister affirmed Thailand’s readiness to welcome Prime Minister Kishida, as well as leaders of other APEC economies, on a visit to Thailand to attend the APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting in November this year. The Japanese Prime Minister expressed support on Thailand’s hosting of 2022 APEC, and commended the country’s BCG economic model, which is in line with Japan’s Green Growth Strategy and Smart Agriculture.
Both parties also constructively discussed global and regional situations, and agreed on the importance of continued cooperation among the global community to provide humanitarian support for both the Russia-Ukraine conflict and Myanmar situation. Japan recognizes ASEAN’s effort to resolve the situation in Myanmar, and commended Thailand for providing humanitarian assistance to Myanmar to the best of its ability. Both the Prime Ministers affirmed support for all sides to end the conflict, and bring back peace and normalcy.
After the bilateral meeting, at 1900hrs, at the Imperial Hotel Tokyo, the Prime Minister attended a gala dinner hosted by Nikkei Inc. in honor of the 27th Nikkei Forum’s participants, at which Prime Minister Kishida also attended.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/55118