รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​SME Promotion Committee approves allocation of SMEs Promotion Fund for FY2022 with total budget of 1,224.8801 million Baht


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 26 สิงหาคม 2564
พิมพ์
​SME Promotion Committee approves allocation of SMEs Promotion Fund for FY2022 with total budget of 1,224.8801 million Baht
​SME Promotion Committee approves allocation of SMEs Promotion Fund for FY2022 with total budget of 1,224.8801 million Baht
August 25, 2021, at 09.30 hrs, at PMOC Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha presided over the 3/2021 meeting of the SME Promotion Committee via a teleconference. Participating in the meeting were Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Energy Supattanapong Punmeechaow, and Minister of Finance Arkhom Termpittayapaisith. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister ordered acceleration of the development of single sign on (SSO) system for the database of Office of SMEs Promotion (OSMEP), and emphasized the usage of the SMEs Promotion Fund to be in line with the Fund objectives. He also proposed amendment of the law related to SME promotion to keep it up to date with the current situation, taking into account post-COVID-19 business operation and the benefits of the nation and people. OSMEP was advised to discuss with the Strategic Transformation Office, and the Government’s economic reform working group on the upgrade and development of SME through mentoring, on which OSMEP could form an integrative operation with incubation centers throughout the country, such as Ministry of Digital Economy and Society’s digital centers.
The Prime Minister also enjoined concerned agencies to expedite elimination of obstacles and limitation in accessing sources of fund of the SME entrepreneurs. SMEs information should be clearly and properly compiled to better match each group of SMEs with suitable sources of fund. Information on provinces/provincial clusters’ budget administration should also be taken into consideration as part of an effort to better generate jobs and revenues of the people.
The Prime Minister affirmed the Government’s commitment to continue promoting potential and innovative SMEs, while striving to increase potential of others through identifying proper promotion direction, in parallel with adopting digital technology. E-commerce will be promoted for small scaled entrepreneurs to be able to expand their business and enhance competitiveness. OSMEP was instructed to discuss with concerned agencies to further promote agro product online sales and increase logistics efficiency, as well as to attract potential and tech-knowledgeable new generations to the agricultural sector. The Prime Minister affirmed that the Government would not leave anyone behind, and would commit to address debt problem, especially household debts, of people in every sector.
The meeting also approved: 1) the draft regulation of the OSMEP Executive Board on criteria, condition, and method for the SMEs Promotion Fund to be provided to SMEs through business service providers, B.E. …; and 2) allocation of the SMEs Promotion Fund for FY2022 with the total budget of 1,224.8801 million Baht with an aim to promote MSME’s post COVID-19 business resilience and rehabilitation.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/45170