รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM pleased with Thai rice being name world’s best-tasting rice for 2 consecutive years


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 16 ธันวาคม 2564
พิมพ์
​PM pleased with Thai rice being name world’s best-tasting rice for 2 consecutive years
​PM pleased with Thai rice being name world’s best-tasting rice for 2 consecutive years
Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha was reported that Thailand's jasmine rice 105 variety has won the first prize of the “World’s Best Rice Award 2021”, held at the annual World Rice Conference. The country has received the top award for 2 consecutive years. The prime Minister extended his congratulations to the Thai farmers for global recognition of the Thai rice quality.
This is the world’s largest rice competition, organized annually at the World Rice Conference by the U.S.-based “The Rice Trader” magazine. This year, the event was held in Dubai during December 7-9, 2021 which marked its 13th anniversary. It drew 11 rice entries from the United States, China, India, Vietnam, Myanmar and Thailand. The 105 jasmine rice variety was added to the line-up by the Thai Rice Exporters Association. The competition criteria are smell, taste, texture and shape of the rice, both cooked and uncooked, in a blind test conducted by the judges.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the award will boost confidence and affirm the quality of Thai rice in the global market. This is in line with the Government’s policy under the Thai Rice Strategy 2020-2024 which adheres to the “marketing-led” approach to aim for Thailand to become global leader in production and marketing of quality rice at the international standard. The Government also stands ready to provide support to the farmers to enhance competitiveness of the Thai rice in the global market.
At present, export prices of Thai rice are considered competitive, which has resulted in the increase of and positive trend in the export volume. The total of 5.82 million tons of rice have been exported so far, from the export target of 60 million tons set for this year. In November alone, 825,000 tons of rice have been requested for export license, which is the highest in 11 months.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/49521