รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM urges ASEAN to raise clear and coordinated voices on ASEAN’s centrality in the regional architecture


วันอังคารที่ 26 ตุลาคม 2564
พิมพ์
PM urges ASEAN to raise clear and coordinated voices on ASEAN’s centrality in the regional architecture
PM urges ASEAN to raise clear and coordinated voices on ASEAN’s centrality in the regional architecture
October 26, 2021, at 1000hrs, at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha attended and delivered an intervention at the 39th ASEAN Summit via a videoconference. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of his intervention as follows:
According to the Prime Minister, international cooperation is essential to effectively overcome recent challenges, be it, the COVID-19 situation, technological advancement, and climate change, among others. It is especially crucial for ASEAN to maintain peace in the region, as well as constructive cooperation with external partners, to allow for the continued development of our economies and societies. ASEAN Member States must ensure our unity and centrality in order to maintain regional strategic equilibrium by simultaneously pursuing the following three approaches.
First, ASEAN should enhance engagement with external partners, and maintain our solidarity and leading role in advancing various initiatives to augment ASEAN’s opportunities and strength in conducting external relations. ASEAN should maximise incoming opportunities to advance agendas that are of our interest and continue to promote ASEAN’s centrality in the region.
Second, ASEAN must collectively raise clear and coordinated voices on ASEAN’s centrality in the regional architecture, and strengthen ASEAN-led mechanisms, by employing the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific (AOIP) as a tool to encourage the major powers to engage constructively in our region in order to ensure regional peace and stability.
Third, ASEAN should be able to contribute to promoting strategic trust between China and the US by considering innovative approaches in engaging with them and allowing them to find commonalities on issues of mutual interest in the region such as climate change and human capital development, among others.
On the situation in Myanmar, the Prime Minister emphasized that it is a test of ASEAN’s ability to resolve problems in our own region. ASEAN’s constructive role in addressing this situation is of paramount importance and our action on this matter shall have a bearing on ASEAN’s credibility in the eyes of the international community.
Thailand would like to see peace and stability in Myanmar and supports the implementation of the 5-Point Consensus for the benefit of the Myanmar people and the region as a whole.
However, special Envoy of the ASEAN Chair should be able to visit Myanmar soon. This will be an important first step in the process of confidence-building with the goal of encouraging dialogue among the parties concerned in Myanmar. Cessation of violence and the peaceful resolution of conflict through dialogue among and consultations with all parties concerned. Also ASEAN should provide humanitarian assistance to all sides.
The Prime Minister emphasized Thailand’s belief in the collective wisdom of all ASEAN Member States, including Myanmar, to overcome all challenges together in the spirit of the ASEAN family, and expressed hope that Myanmar will trust ASEAN in helping Myanmar to achieve peace and harmony, as well as to return to the democratic process for the benefit of the Myanmar people and for regional peace, stability and prosperity.
In closing, the Prime Minister congratulated Brunei Darussalam on the successful ASEAN Chairmanship this year, and expressed full support on Cambodia’s ASEAN chairmanship next year.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/47398