รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM observes development progress of domestically-produced COVID-19 vaccines


วันศุกร์ที่ 20 สิงหาคม 2564
พิมพ์
PM observes development progress of domestically-produced COVID-19 vaccines
PM observes development progress of domestically-produced COVID-19 vaccines
August 19, 2021, at 1030hrs, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha paid a visit to Chulalongkorn University, and King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital to observe Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation’s undertakings on: 1) COVID-19 home isolation care and tracking system; and 2) research and development of COVID-19 vaccine in Thailand. The Prime Minister was welcomed by Minister of Interior Gen. Anupong Paojinda, Minister of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation Anek Laothamatas, Director of King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, the Thai Red Cross and Dean of Faculty of Medicine Professor Suttipong Wacharasindhu, M.D., executives and staffs of the university and hospital. Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist as follows:
The Prime Minister thanked all concerned staffs for joining forces in caring and following up on the COVID-19 patients who are under home isolation and community isolation, and affirmed the Government’s commitment to ensure sufficient and proper support and care to COVID-19 patients. He also took the opportunity to converse with the patients via “Telehealth” system, and wished them speedy recovery.
Professor Kiat Ruxrungtham, M.D., Director of the Vaccine Research Center of Chula’s Faculty of Medicine, reported on the development of ChulaCov19 vaccine, on which the Prime Minister commended the Thai medical and researching team. The Government will later help expedite registration and legalization of the domestically-produced vaccines.
The Prime Minister, then, observed the operation of a plant-based vaccine manufacturing facility at Chulaphat 14 Building, which is a pilot production facility for a plant-based COVID-19 vaccine through a collaboration between Chulalongkorn University and Baiya Phytopharm Ltd. He hoped for the tangible success of the project, and gave his moral support to all concerned personnel, urging them to be perseverant and take good care of themselves against the disease. The Prime Minister is confident that Thailand’s public health system would be greatly strengthened with the effective response to any future emerging infectious diseases.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Prime Minister expressed content over the outcome of his field visit and the operation of Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation, as well as its affiliated universities and other concerned sectors, in relation to the holistic effort to address COVID-19. Patients the Prime Minister had a chance to talk to via the Telehealth system were satisfied with the current HI system. He also emphasized the use of digital technology to enhance efficiency of the HI system.
The Prime Minister affirmed that the Government would do its best to tackle the COVID-19 situation and economic problems, and would not be demoralized, in a bid for the country to move forward.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/44939