รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM appreciated Japan’s donation of COVID-19 vaccines.


วันจันทร์ที่ 12 กรกฎาคม 2564
พิมพ์
PM appreciated Japan’s donation of COVID-19 vaccines.
PM appreciated Japan’s donation of COVID-19 vaccines.
July 12, 2021, at 08.30 hrs, at the Blue Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha presided over the handover of COVID-19 vaccines to Thailand by the Japanese Government, which was undertaken via a videoconference. Attending the handover ceremony were Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Public Health Anutin Charnvirakul, and H.E. Mr. Nashida Kazuya, Ambassador of Japan to Thailand, as the Japanese Government’s delegate. Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed detail of the handover as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed appreciation for the Japanese Government’s goodwill and hospitality, which demonstrates tight-knitted relations and the intent of the two countries to join forces in tackling the COVID-19 pandemic, as vaccination is a key to reduce the chance of virus transmission. This assistance of the Japanese Government would enhance access of COVID-19 vaccine among the Thai people, which will reduce the risk of hospitalization or death. The Prime Minister affirmed Thailand’s commitment to work together with Japan in leaping over all the obstacles.
The Japanese Ambassador presented to the Prime Minister Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga’s statement, according to which, Prime Minister Suga mentioned Thailand-Japan cooperation and assistance throughout the 135 years of the diplomatic relations. He also expressed hope that the donated vaccines would help smoothen Thailand’s vaccination process, and that this gesture of friendship would bring back smile and lead the two countries out of this crisis.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the agreement for the donation of vaccines has been signed by the Thai and Japanese Government on June 29, 2021. On July 9, 2021, 1,053,090 doses of AstraZeneca, produced in Japan by KM Biologics Co., Ltd. and Daiichi Sankyo Co., Ltd., were delivered to Thailand.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/43669