รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM pleased with Thailand’s digital quality of life as assessed under Surfshark’s DQL index


วันอังคารที่ 28 กันยายน 2564
พิมพ์
PM pleased with Thailand’s digital quality of life as assessed under Surfshark’s DQL index
PM pleased with Thailand’s digital quality of life as assessed under Surfshark’s DQL index
September 27, 2021, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha was reported on the Digital Quality of Life Index (DQL) announced by a cybersecurity company “Surfshark”, which ranks Thailand at 44th among 110 countries, 4th in ASEAN, and 11th in the Asian continent.
Surfshark’s Digital Quality of Life Index covers 90% of global population or approx. 6.9 billion people, and offers a unique insight into the overall digital quality of life based on five core pillars, namely, internet affordability (Thailand’s rank: 58th), internet quality (Thailand’s rank: 19th), electronic infrastructure (Thailand’s rank: 46th), electronic government (Thailand’s rank: 51st), and electronic security (Thailand’s rank: 63rd). Underpinning these pillars are 14 indicators that are interrelated and work together to provide a measure of overall digital quality of life.
Overall, Thailand has demonstrated one of the most significant improvements compared to the DQL 2020, rising from 63rd place to 44th, and excelling in the internet quality pillar worldwide. Since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, Thailand’s mobile speed has improved by 81% and is now 40.79 Mbps (22nd in ranking). At the same time, broadband speeds increased by 29% and is now 189.54 Mbps – the second-best rank in the world.
The Government Spokesperson emphasized the Government’s commitment to transform the country into Thailand 4.0 to ensure widespread and safe access to high-speed internet services in all villages, communities, and tourist attractions across the country. Digital platform and service development has been undertaken to support the Digital Government, facilitate business operation, and enhance service efficiency in an inclusive, transparent, and accountable manner. This is to transform Thailand in accordance with the national reform plan under the (draft) 13thNational Economic and Social Development Plan, to be in effect during 2023-2027.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/46297