รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand- UK to strengthen comprehensive relations and cooperation


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 7 ตุลาคม 2564
พิมพ์
Thailand- UK to strengthen comprehensive relations and cooperation
Thailand- UK to strengthen comprehensive relations and cooperation
October 6, 2021, at 14.00 hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Mark Gooding, Ambassador of the United Kingdom to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his assumption of the position. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure to officially meet the UK Ambassador and welcomed him to Thailand. He emphasized a wish for Thailand and UK to maximize existing cooperation mechanisms in increasing trade and investment, especially in healthcare, science, technology, and innovation, for post-COVID-19 sustainable economic rehabilitation. He hoped that the two countries would rush in enhancing cooperation for sustainable recovery.
The UK Ambassador expressed pleasure to be tenured in Thailand, and conveyed the regards of Prime Minister Boris Johnson to the Prime Minister. Thailand and UK have been forging close and cordial relations for over 400 years. The Ambassador commits to further reinforce mutual relations and build on the mutually beneficial cooperation toward tangible outcome in all dimensions, be it, political cooperation, increase of trade and investment value, and regional cooperation.
Both parties came to terms to seek further cooperation in the areas of infrastructure, digital, innovation, environment, and climate change for mutual interests. They also agreed that the two countries have shared similar challenges, such as the ageing society and digital disruption, and that educational cooperation should, therefore, be promoted.
On climate change, on which both Thailand and UK have placed importance, UK is scheduled to host the 26th United Nations Climate Change conference (COP26) in Glasgow. The Prime Minister took the occasion to thank UK for its bilateral cooperation on the issue. Thailand strives to become a climate-resilient and low-carbon society by aiming to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 20-25% within 2030, and to achieve carbon neutrality by 2065-2070. The country is also developing the Long-Term Low Greenhouse Gas Emission Development Strategy.
With regard to healthcare cooperation, the Prime Minister was pleased that UK’s AstraZeneca has chosen Thailand as its COVID-19 vaccine production base and distribution hub in the Southeast Asian region. The Ambassador also congratulated Thailand’s success on COVID-19 vaccination.
Toward the end of the meeting, the Prime Minister conveyed his regard to Prime Minister Boris Johnson, and wished the newly reshuffled cabinet of UK a successful endeavor.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/46675