รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM presented with COVID-19 medication donated by German Government


วันอังคารที่ 5 ตุลาคม 2564
พิมพ์
PM presented with COVID-19 medication donated by German Government
PM presented with COVID-19 medication donated by German Government
October 4, 2021, at 1100hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Georg Schmidt, Ambassador of Federal Republic of Germany to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha during the handover of COVID-19 medication, donated by the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure to meet the German Ambassador, and commended his active role throughout the past 3 years, especially in tightening relations between people of the two countries through regular posting on the social media platforms, and promoting environmental and climate change awareness, an agenda Thailand has also placed importance on. He also conveyed his regard to Chancellor of Germany Angela Merkel, and congratulated an uneventful general election in Germany. The Thai Government stands ready to continue to strengthen relations and cooperation with the incoming German Government toward comprehensive partnership.
The German Ambassador expressed appreciation toward the Thai Government for its warm support and welcome, and thanked all concerned agencies who have taken part in facilitating the delivery of COVID-19 medication. He also commits to further reinforce relations between Thailand and Germany through various aspects of cooperation, e.g., trade and investment, technology and innovation, and alternative energy, among others. Thailand’s partnership is important to Germany in its endeavor toward sustainable development. Germany stands ready to provide full support to Thailand in all dimensions.
On trade and investment, the Prime Minister affirmed the Thai Government’s commitment to facilitate German investment, and extended his invitation for German investors to invest in Thailand.
On education, the Prime Minister emphasized that Thailand has placed importance on labor skill development on which Germany has provided support through establishment of vocational schools to promote engineering skill development in the country.
Both parties also came to terms to forge environmental cooperation, especially on the climate change and sustainable development, in line with Thailand’s BCG economic model. Focus will be made on bioeconomy for post COVID-19 economic rehabilitation of the ASEAN region.
The Prime Minister, then, received 2,000 units of Casirivimab/Imdevimab (COVID-19 medication), donated by the German Government from the Ambassador, and thanked the German counterpart for their generosity and concern. Both the Prime Minister and the Ambassador appreciated friendship between the two countries especially during the difficult time. The German Government also donated 346,100 doses of AstraZeneca vaccine, which are expected to arrive in Thailand middle of this month.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/46587