รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM orders immediate launch of tourism promotion under theme “Amazing Thailand New Chapter”


วันพุธที่ 12 มกราคม 2565
พิมพ์
​PM orders immediate launch of tourism promotion under theme “Amazing Thailand New Chapter”
​PM orders immediate launch of tourism promotion under theme “Amazing Thailand New Chapter”
January 12, 2022, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha handed down a policy for Ministry of Tourism and Sports, and Tourism Authority of Thailand to launch the country’s new tourism concept under theme: “Amazing Thailand New Chapter” by January 2022, and to develop “white tourism” in line with the BCG economic development concept to ensure tourism sustainability and safety.
The Government also plans to introduce an entry fee of 300 Baht/person for incoming tourists, starting the 2nd quarter (April 2022), which will be incorporated in the airfare. Revenues will be used for the development and improvement of tourism attractions, and for tourists’ insurance coverage. Concerned agency will also decide on the most appropriate practice for collection of the entry fee for land traveling.
According to the Government Spokesperson, revenues generated from tourism this year is expected at 1.3-1.8 trillion Baht, out of which approx. 800 billion is expected from foreign travelers. If the situation remains the same this year, in which tourists from Europe and the U.S. are main contributors, an estimation of 5 million tourists is expected. However, if Indian tourists included, the target of 7 million tourists could be reached, and if the Chinese tourists are allowed to travel overseas around the second half of the year, 9 million tourists are expected to arrive in the country. Likewise, once the border is opened for cross-border tourism, which should attract tourists from Myanmar, Lao PDR, and Malaysia, the number of 15 million tourists is viable. Meanwhile, domestic tourism is forecasted to generate the approx. revenue of 700 billion Baht this year.
The Prime Minister also ordered all concerned agencies to closely follow up the Omicron situation, both in the country and in other countries, in order to plan out national rehabilitation on the basis of economic and public health balance. Tourism activities have also been planned to accommodate various scenarios and will be strictly implemented in accordance with the public health measures.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/50463