รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM: Suspension of Test & Go measure is temporary while registered travelers may enter Thailand as planned


วันพุธที่ 22 ธันวาคม 2564
พิมพ์
PM: Suspension of Test & Go measure is temporary while registered travelers may enter Thailand as planned
PM: Suspension of Test & Go measure is temporary while registered travelers may enter Thailand as planned
December 21, 2021, at the Outer Santi Maitri Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha chaired a meeting of the Committee for COVID-19 Situation Administration (CCSA) to reconsider measures on entering the Kingdom as part of the prevention of the spread of COVID-19 “Omicron” variant. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The following new measures will take effect from 0000hrs on December 22, 2021 to January 4, 2022:
- Thailand Pass will be closed for all “Test and Go” and “Sandbox” applications (except Phuket Sandbox) from 0000hrs on December 22, 2021 to January 4, 2022
- All travelers will be tested twice using the RT-PCR method. The second testing will take place at government-designated facilities (no additional cost). Close follow-up will be conducted on any developing symptom
- All residents in Thailand will be urged to reconsider overseas travel plan, especially to countries in Europe, America, Africa, and the Middle East. If the travel is necessary, they are required to undergo ATK testing right before travel, and conduct self-ATK testing occasionally while traveling.
- Equitable distribution of vaccines will be promoted. Additional vaccination sites will be established at bus terminals, ports, and airports.
According to the Government Spokesperson, approx. 200,000 applicants who have registered for Thailand Pass under the Test and Go scheme may continue their entry to Thailand as planned, but will be required to undergo the RT-PCR test twice, that is, the 1st and 7th day of entry. Cost for the 2nd test will be shouldered by the Thai Government. All the measures cited above are temporary, and will be further scrutinized taking into account health security of the Thai people and those who are entering the country.
Thailand has 27 confirmed Omicron infection cases (26 from those traveling into the country, and 1 local infection). The number of COVID-19 infection cases found under the Test and Go method is 83 in November, and 227 in December.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/49756