รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thai agro product export to be prepared for launch of China–Laos railway


วันศุกร์ที่ 18 มิถุนายน 2564
พิมพ์
Thai agro product export to be prepared for launch of China–Laos railway
Thai agro product export to be prepared for launch of China–Laos railway
Deputy Government Spokesperson Ratchada Thanadirek disclosed that Minister of Agriculture and Cooperatives Chalermchai Sri-on ordered for the development of agriculture logistics to accommodate the opening of China–Laos railway in December this year. The opening of the interconnected railroutewould be a good opportunity for Thai entrepreneurs to export agricultural products to China in the more convenient manner.
Minister of Agriculture and Cooperatives also assigned National Bureau of Agricultural Commodity and Food Standards to expedite signing of a protocol on quarantine and inspection of exported and imported fruits via a third country between Thailand and China for concerned officials and entrepreneurs to have a clear compliance approach. A working group was also set up to lay out a preparation plan for the next phase of Thailand-Laos-China railway. Members of the working group include representatives of the Department of Agriculture, Fishery Department, Department of Livestock, and the Rubber Authority of Thailand, with a representative of National Bureau of Agricultural Commodity and Food Standards as the secretary.
Thai fruits are now in high demand in the Chinese market. Over 532,000 tons of Thai fruits have been exported to China during the first 4 months of 2021, accounting for the total value of 34 billion Baht. Among this, 190,000 tons are durians (23.3 billion Baht), 188,000 tons are longans (7.9 billion Baht), and 100,00 tons are coconuts (1.9 billion Baht). Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives and other related agencies strive to maintain quality and hygienic standard of Thai fruits through strict control of every step of production and logistics processes, in line with the standards set by WHO and FAO, and GAP and GMP international standards.
According to the Deputy Government Spokesperson, the China–Laos railway links China’s Kunming with Vientiane via Boten in Lao PDR. As Nong Khai province is only 24km away from Vientiane, this will become a main route for people and goods transportation between the Southern China and Thailand via Lao PDR, and is expected to greatly enhance trade and investment opportunities of Thai investors and entrepreneurs.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/42839