รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-“One Platform for Foreigner Roadmap” to be developed as foreigners’ one-stop service (OSS) portal


วันศุกร์ที่ 4 กุมภาพันธ์ 2565
พิมพ์
“One Platform for Foreigner Roadmap” to be developed as foreigners’ one-stop service (OSS) portal
“One Platform for Foreigner Roadmap” to be developed as foreigners’ one-stop service (OSS) portal
February 4, 2022, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha has placed importance on the tourism policies that suit both domestic and global situation to promote economic activities along with COVID-19 preventive and control measures.
Under the Prime Minister’s guidance, the Digital Government Development Agency (DGA) is developing “One Platform for Foreigner Roadmap”, a one-stop service (OSS) portal to facilitate foreigners, i.e., tourists, migrant workers, businessmen, investors, and students, as well as long-term residents (LTRs), in accessing various Government services, which would help save their time and cost.
The Prime Minister expressed confidence that once the “One Platform for Foreigner Roadmap” is up and running, the central portal would become another plus point to attract more overseas travelers, in addition to the country’s unique culture and beautiful tourist attractions, as well as strict public health measures that ensures their safe visit. In 2022, Thailand expects approx. 5-15 million foreign visitors and 160 million domestic travelers/visit, which would generate the total tourism revenue of 1.3-1.8 trillion Baht. White tourism will also be highlighted under the BCG Economic Model.
At the same time, the Government strives to continue developing digital technology in accordance with the Digital Government Plan (2020-2022) and the Digitalization of Public Administration and Services Delivery Act, B.E. 2562 (2019). Aside from the Government agencies, public services in education, health and medical, agriculture, etc., will also be digitalized in a bid to promote the country’s digital innovation and transformation under the vision: “Open and Connected Digital Government with Co-creation for Valuable Public Services”.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/51255