รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand becomes popular among remote workers and digital nomads


วันจันทร์ที่ 8 สิงหาคม 2565
Thailand becomes popular among remote workers and digital nomads
Thailand becomes popular among remote workers and digital nomads
August 4, 2022, Government Spokesperson disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha is pleased with the report of Airbnb, an online marketplace for lodging, primarily homestays for vacation rentals, and tourism activities, according to which searches for international tourists wishing to stay in Thailand during the first quarter of 2022 has increased by over 180% yoy due to the country’s relaxation of travel restriction. He also commended all concerned agencies and sectors for joining forces in driving economic recovery through tourism, and for launching the campaign “Visit Thailand Year 2022-2023” to attract more tourists.
Thailand has a number of advantages to become a popular destination for remote workers and digital nomads, which has contributed to an increase of long-term stays. According to Airbnb, top 5 destinations for both domestic and international tourists are Bangkok, Phuket, Pattaya (Chonburi), Chiang Mai, and Koh Samui (Surat Thani). Tourists are also keen to explore new places, such as Koh Lanta (Krabi), Trat, Pai (Mae Hong Son), and Cha-am (Phetchaburi). The most searches on Thailand are from the U.S., U.K., and Germany, respectively.
So far, a number of incoming foreign tourists has amounted to over 2.7 million, and is expected to reach 10 million by the end of the year. In 2023, Tourism Authority of Thailand (TAT) has developed a tourism recovery and promotion plan toward tourism value and sustainability. Revenue gained from tourism activities is expected at 1.25-2.38 trillion Baht under 3 different economic scenarios:
1) Worst case: Total revenue of 1.25 trillion Baht is forecasted with 670 billion Baht from domestic tourists (117 million people- trip) and 580 billion Baht from international tourists (11 million people)
2) Base case: Total revenue of 1.73 trillion Baht is forecasted with 760 billion Baht from domestic tourists (130 million people- trip) and 970 billion Baht from international tourists (18 million people)
3) Best case: Total revenue of 2.38 trillion Baht is forecasted with 880 billion Baht from domestic tourists (135 million people- trip) and 1.50 trillion Baht from international tourists (30 million people). This is the case that Chinese tourists are allowed to travel outside the country.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Prime Minister has placed great importance on revival of Thai tourism sector, which will significantly contribute to national economic recovery as a whole. The increase in number of international tourists reflects that Thai tourism is now reviving. The Prime Minister also instructed concerned agencies to ensure diversity of tourism promotion schemes for the latter part of the year, while taking into account public health measures, in order to boost confidence of foreign tourists and increase economic opportunities for the Thai people.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/57766