รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM attends and delivers an intervention at 38th ASEAN Summit, ensures the tangible implementation of ASEAN's initiative on COVID-19 response.


วันอังคารที่ 26 ตุลาคม 2564
พิมพ์
PM attends and delivers an intervention at 38th ASEAN Summit, ensures the tangible implementation of ASEAN's initiative on COVID-19 response.
PM attends and delivers an intervention at 38th ASEAN Summit, ensures the tangible implementation of ASEAN's initiative on COVID-19 response.
October 26, 2021, at 08.00 hrs, at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha attends and delivers an intervention at the 38th ASEAN Summit via a videoconference. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of his intervention as follows:
According to the Prime Minister, the COVID-19 crisis underlines the vulnerability of our region in coping with emerging threats that may arise beyond our expectations, and was of the view that from now on, not only must ASEAN work to address the COVID-19 pandemic and its impacts, but the region also needs to examine the lessons learnt from this crisis to enhance the ASEAN Community’s resilience and preparedness in response to emerging challenges in the future. The Prime Minister took the opportunity to share his thoughts on the following issues that ASEAN should further prioritize:
First, ASEAN needs to ensure the effective implementation of its initiatives on COVID-19 response. The Prime Minister expressed pleasure with the progress in utilizing the COVID-19 ASEAN Response Fund for vaccine procurement, and hoped that ASEAN Member States will receive the vaccines soon. Thailand has already provided the list of earmarked items for the ASEAN Regional Reserve of Medical Supplies for Public Health Emergencies and hopes that the Reserve can be operationalized soon. The Prime Minister added that ASEAN should further strengthen preparedness in response to emerging diseases and bolster public health security in the long run, including through promoting cooperation on R&D on vaccines to attain vaccine security and self-reliance in the region. Currently, Thailand is on track in the development of COVID-19 vaccines and the country is ready to cooperate with other ASEAN Member States on this matter.
Second, ASEAN should start reopening and allowing for safe travel to revive economies.  The ASEAN Travel Corridor Arrangement Framework should be utilized, with mutual recognition of vaccines and vaccine certificates to facilitate business travel, and later tourism.  In this context, Thailand has already opened up pilot areas under the Phuket Sandbox program to welcome foreign tourists and will gradually open up more areas in other provinces for international tourism. Furthermore, ASEAN must avoid unnecessary measures that may hinder the movement of goods to ensure our supply chain connectivity during the pandemic and make greater use of the intra-ASEAN market to stimulate our regional economy. The Prime Minister also hoped that RCEP can enter into force as per the intended timeline and that ASEAN-Canada FTA negotiations can be announced soon. This is to promote an environment conducive to trade and investment and expand commercial opportunities for our entrepreneurs to help them recover from the impact of COVID-19. Thailand plans to submit the instrument of ratification for RCEP to the Secretary-General of ASEAN in early November to contribute to its early entry into force.
Third, COVID-19 and natural disaster challenges – be they climate change, floods, forest fires or transboundary haze – reflect the weakness of current development approaches that focus primarily on economic interest, while disregarding the impact on the environment and natural resources, which have resulted in intensifying today’s crises.  Hence, it is now time for a paradigm shift in our everyday lives and for achieving a “Balance of All Things” to help make ASEAN’s recovery and development more sustainable, in line with the Bio-Circular-Green or BCG Economy Model which for Thailand will enable the country to reinvent itself for the Next Normal era.
According to the Prime Minister, an “ASEAN Green Agenda” should be pursued as an approach for the ASEAN region’s future in promoting sustainable and environmentally-friendly economic growth, by employing green technologies and innovation and prioritizing key issues that are consistent with global trends such as:
(1) Transitioning to clean energy to reduce carbon emissions and address global warming and climate change;
(2) Efficient use of terrestrial and marine resources to promote agriculture and food security in the region;
(3) Digital inclusiveness through the optimization of digital technology in all aspects such as access to education, capacity building for MSMEs, telemedicine and the realization of a “Digital ASEAN”;
(4) Sustainable urban and community development to promote the welfare and well-being of our peoples living in urban and rural areas; and,
(5) Green financing to forge a multi-stakeholder partnership to mobilize funds for environmentally-friendly investments.
In closing, the Prime Minister reaffirms Thailand’s commitment to jointly advancing the ASEAN Community and forging greater regional integration so that ASEAN can continue to serve as a major driving force of the global economy and society.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/47377