รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs presided over the opening of the annual Thailand National Science and Technology (NST) Fair 2022


วันจันทร์ที่ 15 สิงหาคม 2565
พิมพ์
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs presided over the opening of the annual Thailand National Science and Technology (NST) Fair 2022
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs presided over the opening of the annual Thailand National Science and Technology (NST) Fair 2022 and presented the Prime Minister’s Science Awards 2022 at the Impact Exhibition Hall, Nonthaburi.
August 14, 2022, at the Impact Exhibition Hall, Nonthaburi H.E. Mr. Don Pramudwinai Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, on behalf of the Prime Minister, presided over the opening of Thailand National Science and Technology Fair 2022 and presented the Prime Minister’s Science Awards 2022 to selected students and their supervising teachers for their excellent science and technology projects.
This year’s Science and Technology Fair was held from 13-21 August 2022 to showcase the success in promoting science and technology as well as innovation by His Majesty the Late King Bhumibol Adulyadej and various institutions and individuals. The theme of “Art – Science – Innovation for Sustainable Society” was chosen to focus on the amalgamation of art, science and technology, and innovation in driving towards a creative economy and supporting the path to a BCG (Bio-Circular-Green) economy. More than 123 booths were present from various agencies and 10 foreign embassies in Bangkok to share their success and potential benefits of science and technology to youth and the public. Visitors had the opportunity to participate interactively in various activities and experiments that inspire their critical thinking and problem-solving skill. Another related activity - NST Fair Science Carnival Bangkok - was also held at Samyan Mitrtown in downtown Bangkok from 17-21 August 2022 to offer youth and the local community a chance to enjoy and appreciate the interaction of art and science applications that is prevalent in our daily life.
In his opening remarks, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs alluded to the importance of humans as the super-wonder that could even create the seven wonders of the world that we all know. We should, therefore, continue to harness human ingenuity to create a better world in which we can live in peace and harmony with progress for all mankind. He also urged balancing our life so that the precious brain power can be utilised to the fullest.
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs also presented the Prime Minister’s Science Awards to four teams of students and their respective supervising teachers who have been chosen at the national level for their excellent science and technology projects. These distinguished awards were given annually to inspire secondary students to strive for the advancement in their study of science and technology applications that would further encourage them to continue scientific learning at higher levels.
After the opening ceremony, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs as well as Minister of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation paid a visit to various booths organised by foreign embassies and agencies with keen interest and mingled with students who participate enthusiastically in many plays and experiments.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/57994