รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM and UNSG Special Envoy on Myanmar agree to push forward for peaceful solutions to Myanmar situation


วันอังคารที่ 18 มกราคม 2565
พิมพ์
PM and UNSG Special Envoy on Myanmar agree to push forward for peaceful solutions to Myanmar situation
PM and UNSG Special Envoy on Myanmar agree to push forward for peaceful solutions to Myanmar situation
January 17, 2022, at 1330hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Ms. Noeleen Heyzer, Special Envoy of the UN Secretary-General on Myanmar, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed Ms. Heyzer, and expressed confidence on her experiences and knowledge on Thailand and the region, as she was earlier appointed Executive Secretary ofUNESCAP for 7 years. Thailand stands ready to cooperate and support the mission of the UNSG Special Envoy on Myanmar.
The Special Envoy of the UN Secretary-General on Myanmarwas pleased to meet with the Prime Minister, and expressed concern over the Myanmar situation on which she endorses resolution by the peaceful means. She also commended the Thai Government’s active role in pushing forward peace building in Myanmar and seeking progress in ASEAN’s “Five-Point Consensus”. With the Prime Minister’s knowledge and understanding on the Myanmar situation, she would be pleased to listen to his suggestion, and cooperate with the Thai Government on Myanmar peace building process.
The Prime Minister affirmed Thailand’s commitment to support and engage with mechanisms of the UN and ASEAN in finding peaceful solutions to the situation in Myanmar. Nevertheless, Myanmar's problems are complex, and thorough understanding on the country’s history and ethnic background is needed to gradually address the situation and build trust with the Myanmar's leader. Thailand has closely followed up on the Myanmar situation from the very start, and is of the view that the most important thing now is to end violence and resume peace talk. The country also stands ready to provide assistance to Myanmar people without discrimination through facilitating the delivery of medical and humanitarian support.
The Prime Minister also affirmed Thailand’s long-standing experiences on humanitarian assistance, and has set the “humanitarian area” along the border under strict COVID-19 preventive measures and practices. The Myanmar Persons Fleeing Unrest (MPFU) would only be returned on a voluntary basis. The global community may rest assured that the Thai agencies provides assistance to MPFU based on international humanitarian principles.
Both parties also discussed constructive and peaceful solution to the Myanmar situation for the safety of the people of Myanmar.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/50614