รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Presided Over Thailand’s Inventor’s Day 2021 & 2022


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 3 กุมภาพันธ์ 2565
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Presided Over Thailand’s Inventor’s Day 2021 & 2022
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Presided Over Thailand’s Inventor’s Day 2021 & 2022
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs presided over Thailand’s Inventor’s Day 2021 & 2022 and awarded a total of 78 awards to distinguished researchers for outstanding research within their respective fields, while also visiting booths set up by various parties ranging from the public sector, the private sector, as well as students from various institutions.
On 2 February 2022, H.E. Mr. Don Pramudwinai, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Thailand presided over Thailand’s Inventor’s Day 2021 & 2022 under the concept of “New Ways to Cherish Life, Paving the Way for Inventions and Innovation.” The event was hosted by the National Research Council of Thailand and the Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation; and was well attended by around 500 people including Adj. Prof. Dr. Anek Laothamatas, the Minister of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation; Prof. Dr. Sirirurg Songsivilai, MD, the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation; and Dr. Wiparat De-ong, Executive Director of the National Research Council of Thailand.
Thailand’s Inventor’s Day 2021 & 2022 is the 23rd Inventor’s Day and is being held from 2-6 February 2022. The event was established to act as a national stage for displaying and publicizing inventions and innovations to the public to motivate and inspire future innovators as well as the future generation.
During the event, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs awarded 78 out of 309 awards to distinguished researchers for outstanding research from various fields. Notable papers include papers such as, “Tilapia Lake Virus Disease: From the Discovery to Knowledge-based Information for Sustainable Disease Prevention and Control,” “Development of Novel Techniques for 3D Optical Tomography,” “Identification of a New Human Disease Gene for Epilepsy and an Abnormal Movement,” and many more.
In addition, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs visited a variety of booths including inventions and innovations on national security, agriculture, technology for the future, education and learning, the elderly and disabled, and green technology.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/51219