รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thai and Australian PMs agree to strengthen strategic partnership for continuing prosperity


วันพุธที่ 18 สิงหาคม 2564
พิมพ์
Thai and Australian PMs agree to strengthen strategic partnership for continuing prosperity
Thai and Australian PMs agree to strengthen strategic partnership for continuing prosperity
August 18, 2021, at 1000hrs, at the Dome Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha had a phone conversation with the Honourable Scott Morrison, Prime Minister of Australia in an opportunity to strengthen strategic partnership between the two countries and promote cooperation in the areas of mutual interest at both bilateral, subregional, and regional levels. Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the phone conversation as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure to have talked with the Australian Prime Minister again, and congratulated the newly-elevated strategic partnership between the two countries through the signing of “Joint Declaration on a Strategic Partnership between the Kingdom of Thailand and Australia” in November 2020. This demonstrates close relations and cooperation despite the COVID-19 crisis, and lays the foundation for the two countries to explore new opportunities together.
The Australian Prime Minister expressed pleasure for the talk,and affirmed Australia’s commitment to further strengthen relations with Thailand through the strategic partnership, develop ASEAN-Australia relations toward comprehensive strategic partnership amidst the common challenges the world is facing, and promote cooperation on the issues of climate change, digital transformation, post-COVID-19 situation, and the New Normal travel.
On the COVID-19 situation, the Prime Minister commended Australia for its offer to donate vaccines to other nations under Regional Vaccine Access and Health Security Initiative, QUAD Vaccine Partnership, the Group of Seven (G7), and ASEAN-Australia frameworks. He also thanked the Australian Government for its financial support ($2.8 million) provided to Thailand for public health purpose, which reflects Australia’s constructive role in promoting human security. The Australian Prime Minister was also asked to consider a prompt and suitablemeans of vaccine cooperation with Thailand, on which he agreed upon in a bid to address the common challenge.
With regard to the Myanmar situation, both parties agreed that humanitarian cooperation be prioritized. The Australian Prime Minister supported the implementation under the five-point consensus toward the tangible outcome. The two Prime Ministers also endorsed the ASEAN special envoy to Myanmarto visit the country and call on all parties concerned to seek a peaceful solution through dialogue via any constructive channel.
The Prime Minister also took the opportunity to call on Australia to consider allowing Thai students to go back to study in the country at the first opportunity.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/44880