รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand and U.S. affirm strategic partnership and commit to advance cooperation at both bilateral and multilateral levels


วันจันทร์ที่ 11 กรกฎาคม 2565
พิมพ์
Thailand and U.S. affirm strategic partnership and commit to advance cooperation at both bilateral and multilateral levels
Thailand and U.S. affirm strategic partnership and commit to advance cooperation at both bilateral and multilateral levels
July 10, 2022, at 1430hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Antony J. Blinken, United States Secretary of State, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his official visit to Thailand. Government spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed U.S. Secretary of State, and conveyed his regards to President Joe Biden. He also thanked the U.S. for the warm welcome during his visit to the country in May 2022 to attend the ASEAN-U.S. Special Summit, and hoped to welcome the U.S. President at the 2022 APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting, to be held in Bangkok at the end of this year.
The Prime Minister congratulated the constant increase of relations dynamism, as the next year will mark the 190th anniversary of the diplomatic relations between Thailand and the U.S. He was also pleased with the signing of the Thai-U.S. Communiqué on Strategic Alliance and Partnership, which will set forth strategy goals based on shared values and common interests.
The U.S. Secretary of State expressed pleasure and honor to meet with the Prime Minister today. The signing of the Thai-U.S. Communiqué on Strategic Alliance and Partnership is a testament to close alliance and longstanding ties of friendship between Thailand and the U.S., and would build the foundation of relations for the next 190 years. The U.S. Secretary of State emphasized the importance of Thailand as the U.S. ally and partner in the Indo-Pacific, and commended the role of Thailand and the Prime Minister as host of APEC 2022. The U.S. will also do its best for 2023 chairmanship of APEC.
Both parties also discussed the following issues of mutual interest:
The Prime Minister and U.S. Secretary of State came to terms to increase economic cooperation. The U.S. is Thailand’s important trade partner with the continuous growth of mutual trade value even during the COVID-19 situation. The two countries commit to push forward cooperation for economic recovery and sustainable development, especially the cooperation to promote supply chain resilience. Both parties congratulated the signing of an MOU on promoting supply chain resilience, and expressed hope that related tangible and sustainable outcome could be accomplished, especially in the expansion of investment in critical industries and BCG industries, competitiveness enhancement, and development of human resources and related technological innovation.
Both parties also agreed on promoting cooperation on climate change and clean energy development. The U.S. places great importance on green economy and clean energy, and commits to advance tangible cooperation with Thailand in these areas the soonest. U.S. Secretary of State affirmed readiness of the U.S. to support Thailand in achieving its climate goals, both in capacity building, hi-tech transfer, and green innovation.
The U.S. also commended Thailand’s commitment and action on anti-human trafficking, and for announcing the issue as a national agenda. U.S. Department of State will issue the annual TIP Report soon, in which Thailand’s tangible progress and accomplishment will be reflected.
On the subregional and regional cooperation, both sides commit to support constructive role of each other’s country in the region. Thailand has joined the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework (IPEF) with the view that IPEF would benefit the region’s economic recovery, and sustainable and inclusive development, which is in line with the Thai Government’s BCG economic policy. The Prime Minister also acknowledged the U.S. chairmanship of APEC 2023, and affirmed Thailand’s readiness to work closely with the U.S. in the transition of APEC chairmanship for concrete interest of the people in the region.
Both parties also discussed international issues of mutual interest. On the Myanmar situation, Thailand has closely followed up on the ongoing situation, and provided appropriate humanitarian assistance via various channels at both bilateral and ASEAN levels, and through international organizations.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/56763