รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM orders concerned agencies to provide immediate relief to flood-affected victims


วันอังคารที่ 31 สิงหาคม 2564
พิมพ์
PM orders concerned agencies to provide immediate relief to flood-affected victims
PM orders concerned agencies to provide immediate relief to flood-affected victims
August 30, 2021, at 1330hrs, at the Government Press Center, Naree Smosorn Building, Government House, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana responded to the questions of the press, gist of which is as follows:
With regard to the current flood situation, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha has very much concerned over the flood-affected victims, and instructed concerned agencies, i.e., Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, and Ministry of Transport, to come up with immediate relief measures to help the flood-affected victims. Military and police forces were also ordered to provide support, both in terms of personnel and equipment. On the issue of vaccine acquisition, Center for COVID-19 Situation Administration (CCSA) has reported to Ministry of Public Health that approximate 30 million doses of Pfizer vaccines will be imported during September-December 2021.
The Government Spokesperson also affirmed that the case of Col. Thitisan “Chief Joe” Uttanapol, who allegedly tortured and killed a drug suspect in police custody, would be handled with standard of proof to guarantee due process and transparent criminal justice system. The Prime Minister has always emphasized that police officers who are offenders themselves must be subject to penalties according to the law. On the police reform, the draft National Police Act, B.E. … is now under the deliberation of the Joint Committee of the Parliament.
With regard to the censure debate to be held from August 31, 2021 onward for 4 days, the Prime Minister stands ready to clarify all the issues to be raised with genuine intention. The Government Spokesperson stressed that voting should be conducted according to the parliamentary mechanism and the democratic process. The Government has strived to administer the nation in all dimensions. In addressing the spread of COVID-19, it has put utmost effort to seek advices from all concerned sectors, including Ministry of Public Health, and observe and assess the lessons learned from other countries.
The Government Spokesperson added that the Prime Minister ordered concerned law enforcement officials to prepare measures, in accordance with the international code of conduct and principle, in handling the upcoming protest on September 2-3, and called on the protesters to abide by the laws, and not to abuse other people’s rights.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/45362