รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM affirms Thailand’s support for UN’s endeavors in all dimensions


วันอาทิตย์ที่ 24 ตุลาคม 2564
พิมพ์
PM affirms Thailand’s support for UN’s endeavors in all dimensions
PM affirms Thailand’s support for UN’s endeavors in all dimensions
October 24, 2021, at 0730hrs, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha delivered a statement via the Radio Thailand on occasion of the United Nations Day, October 24, 2021. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of his statement as follows:
According to the Prime Minister, the United Nations (UN) is the center for international community’s cooperation to alleviate plights, respond to various global challenges, maintain peace, protect and promote human rights, and promote balanced and people-centric development without leaving anyone behind. December 2021 will mark the 75thanniversary of Thailand’s membership in the UN. The country has been working closely with UN, and has been acknowledged as UN’s responsible and accountable development partner. Thailand has also been assigned as the Coordinator for ASEAN and UN on Sustainable Development Goals.
The Prime Minister took pride in the country becoming the regional UN hub, and emphasized the importance to be a good host and to support UN’s endeavors in the country and the region. In 2021, although the countries across the world have learned how to live with COVID-19, various threats have continued to prevail and pose negative impact on the people, especially the climate change, nuclear weapons, terrorism, and deprivation of human rights, which have led to irregular migration and humanitarian crises. According to the Prime Minister, creating the better world will depend upon every country’s commitment to work together and engage all sectors to build peace through a multilateral framework. Youth and women empowerment, in particular, has to be promoted to enhance their rights and role.
Thailand also affirmed its “active, constructive, and continuous” role at the UNGA76, recently held in New York, USA. Important persons under the UN and other international frameworks have complemented the country for its active role in UN’s various missions and humanitarian assistance at both bilateral and multilateral levels. The Prime Minister also stated that Thailand applies the Sufficiency Economy Philosophy (SEP) as guidelines for achieving the SDGs through the promotion of the Bio-Circular-Green Economy Model to create the “Balance of All Things.” With the country’s potential as center for vaccine and pharmaceutical production in the region, Thailand is ready to cooperate with other countries to strengthen public health systems, and promote research and production of the COVID-19 vaccines.
In closing, the Prime Minister stressed the importance of the UN, and urged all sectors, including the youths, to take part in and support UN’s missions in a bid to create benefits for the mankind, and rehabilitate the post-COVID-19 world in a balanced and sustainable manner

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/47330