รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand-Japan to promote “Co-Creation” for future investment and sustainable socio-economic growth


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 13 มกราคม 2565
พิมพ์
Thailand-Japan to promote “Co-Creation” for future investment and sustainable socio-economic growth
Thailand-Japan to promote “Co-Creation” for future investment and sustainable socio-economic growth
January 13, 2022, at 0930hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Mr. HAGIUDA Koichi, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan (METI), paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed H.E. Mr. Hagiuda, as this is his first visit to Thailand, and the first visit of Japanese METI Minister in 5 years. He also expressed confidence that the meeting would help strengthen economic strategic partnership between Thailand and Japan. As APEC Chair in 2022, Thailand stands ready to cooperate with Japan in various areas of mutual interest under the APEC framework, especially on the BCG Economic Model and Japan’s Green Growth Strategy, to achieve tangible outcome at both bilateral and multilateral levels.
Japanese METI Minister also expressed Japan’s commitment to promote economic cooperation with Thailand, especially in the areas related to BCG Economic Model and industrial investment and development. Thailand is Japan’s important trade and investment partner, and vice versa, with close cooperation in all sectors. Japanese METI Minister also affirmed Japan’s support for Thailand’s hosting of the 2022 APEC Summit and related meetings.
Both parties discussed various issues of mutual interest:
On industrial investment and development, the Prime Minister thanked Japanese private sector for their unwavering confidence on Thai economic potential, as Japan has been Thailand's number 1 foreign investors for decades, and is the latter’s important trade partner. He also affirmed the Thai Government’s commitment to promote business environment that is conducive to Japanese investment in Thailand. The Japanese METI Minister added that Thailand is one of the target countries under Japan’s initiative “Asia-Japan Investing for the Future (AJIF)”. Co-creation between private sectors would lead to future investment and sustainable socio-economic growth of the two countries and the Asian continent as a whole.
The Prime Minister also thanked METI for their collaboration in uplifting Thai industry through application of digital system, AI IoT, and 5G system. The collaboration will be further tightened to achieve SDGs in energy and carbon dioxide emissions reduction. He also thanked Japan for taking part in Thailand’s human resource development which would, in turn, support Japanese investment in Thailand’s S-Curve industries in the long run.
After the meeting, the Prime Minister presided over the signing of the Memorandum of Cooperation on the Realization of Energy Partnership between the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Government of Japan, which focuses on cooperation on clean and smart energy.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/50503