รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM’s statement at International Strategic Dialogue Meeting on Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)


วันพุธที่ 13 เมษายน 2565
​PM’s statement at International Strategic Dialogue Meeting on Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
​PM’s statement at International Strategic Dialogue Meeting on Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
April 12, 2022, at 19.27hrs (12.27 hrs, Accra, Ghana time), Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha delivered a statement via a teleconference at the International Strategic Dialogue Meeting on Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), held in Accra, Republic of Ghana. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of his statement as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed appreciation to the Government of Ghana, the Government of Norway, and the World Health Organization (WHO) for initiating this forum to further strengthen international cooperation in the prevention and control of NCDs.
Thailand has introduced measures and taken concrete actions in order to achieve the SDGs including SDG 3.4 on “reducing by one third premature mortality from NCDs” and SDG 3.8 on “achieving universal health coverage” by 2030. The country has succeeded in expanding access to health services under the UHC scheme to cover 99.6% of the population since 2021, which is the highest coverage in the South-East Asia region according to the WHO.
Nevertheless, tackling NCDs still remains one of the country’s key challenges. The Government of Thailand has, therefore, declared prevention and control of NCDs its national agenda. All relevant stakeholders are encouraged to take part in developing national strategies and action plans on NCDs. Its progress reports must be submitted to the Cabinet for monitoring and review purposes. This also helps mobilize resource to invest in health promotion as a part of NCDs prevention.
The Prime Minister stated that the COVID-19 pandemic has posed limitations in and challenges to the delivery and provision of NCD-related services, and believed that prevention and treatment of NCDs needs to be integrated into the public health emergency plan at national, regional, and global levels for better preparedness and response to the future public health crises. Furthermore, a comprehensive and inclusive UHC system also contributes significantly to better management and greater access to health services including NCDs. Thailand stands ready to share experiences and enhance collaboration with other countries in this area, and wishes to reaffirm commitment to the Political Declaration of the 3rd High-Level Meeting of the UNGA on the Prevention and Control of NCDs as the country continues to move towards the achievement of SDG 3.4 and other health- related goals for good health and well-being of the people.
The International Strategic Dialogue Meeting on Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) was held to follow up on the implementation progress of the Political declaration of the third high-level meeting of the General Assembly on the prevention and control of NCDs. National leaders and representatives of countries in various regions have delivered statements to endorse “health in all policies”. Thailand has also committed to continue taking on the important role in propelling cooperation on NCDs and Universal Health Coverage (UHC).

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/53594