รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM chairs signing of MOU between 12 ministries to propel development of children of all ages


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 9 มิถุนายน 2565
PM chairs signing of MOU between 12 ministries to propel development of children of all ages
PM chairs signing of MOU between 12 ministries to propel development of children of all ages
June 9, 2022, at 0900hrs, at the Inner Santi Maitri Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha presided over the signing of the “Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on Integrated Cooperation of Twelve Ministries for Potential Development of “Good, Skillful, and Strong” Thai Children in 21st Century, 2022-2026”. The signing parties are the Ministry of Public Health, Ministry of Tourism and Sports, Ministry of Social Development and Human Security, Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation, Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, Ministry of Digital Economy and Society, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Labor, Ministry of Education, and Ministry of Culture. Participating in the ceremony were Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Public Health Anutin Charnvirakul, Minister of Interior, Gen. Anupong Paojinda, Minister of Social Development and Human Security Juti Krairiksh, Minister of Digital Economy and Society Chaiwut Thanakamanusorn, Minister of Justice Somsak Thepsuthin, Minister of Education Treenuch Thienthong, Minister of Tourism and Sports Phiphat Ratchakitprakarn, Minister of Agriculture and Cooperatives Chalermchai Srion, Minister of Culture Itthiphol Kunplome, Permanent Secretary to Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment Jatuporn Buruspat, Secretary to Minister of Labor Suthep Chitvong, Ministry of Higher Education, Sciences, Research and Innovation’s Office of the Higher Education Commission Dr. Sampan Rittidej.
After witnessing the signing of the MOU, the Prime Minister delivered a keynote speech to emphasize the challenges Thailand has been encountering as a result of the country’s demographic change, especially the declining birth rate.
Children’s lack of access to public health services, education, and essential protection is also the Government’s great challenge in promoting quality workforce and manpower for the country’s future. With the global volatility and instability, it is crucial to prepare human resources in a quality manner, and for them to be resilient to change.
The Government strives to encourage children of all ages to be developed at their full potential in all dimensions. According to the Prime Minister, this is fundamental to comprehensive development and advancement of the nation. Systematic operation integration among concerned Government agencies is, therefore, necessary to propel the development in accordance with the 20-Year National Strategy, which aims to develop Thai people of all ages in a multidimensional manner. The signing of the MOUs today is another step forward to enhancing the integration of the Government’s policies and strategic plans toward tangible actions to empower the children to become good citizens with right and ethical mindsets, equipped with skills required by the 21st Century, and be the future forces of the coun

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/55554