รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM strongly supports campaign “Only One Earth: One World. Living Sustainably in Harmony with Nature” on occasion of World Environment Day 2022


วันอังคารที่ 7 มิถุนายน 2565
พิมพ์
PM strongly supports campaign “Only One Earth: One World. Living Sustainably in Harmony with Nature” on occasion of World Environment Day 2022
PM strongly supports campaign “Only One Earth: One World. Living Sustainably in Harmony with Nature” on occasion of World Environment Day 2022
June 7, 2022, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha has placed great importance on promoting climate action, and protecting environment for the healthiness of the Thai people.
According to the Government Spokesperson, Environmental issue has been incorporated in the implementation policy of all concerned agencies. On occasion of the World Environment Day 2022 on June 5, Ministry of Public Health has implemented a campaign to promote healthiness, balance of life, and sustainable environment under the theme  “Only One Earth: One World. Living Sustainably in Harmony with Nature”. The campaign will build upon the resolutions made at the World Leaders Summit of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Conference of the Parties (COP26) where the Prime Minister pledged Thailand’s readiness to collaborate with all countries and sectors to address climate change in an efficient manner, as the country has been one of the ten countries most severely affected by the atmospheric degradation.
The Prime Minister hopes to create public awareness on environment protection, and healthcare. All concerned agencies and sectors, including Ministry of Public Health, have undertaken awareness promotion campaigns in either of the following 3 aspects: 1) environmental health management in hospitals and health literacy policy; 2) prevention, surveillance, and impact of PM 2.5; and 3) cooperation on environmental care through daily behavioral change, e.g., reducing waste and waste burning, avoiding use of plastic bags, stopping stubble burning, and growing more plants to reduce GHG.
The Government Spokesperson added that Thailand commits to be more aggressive in addressing the climate change challenges in every way and every means possible, by aiming at reaching carbon neutrality in 2050, and Net Zero Emission in or before 2065.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/55459