รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM: Multilateralism is key to overcome global crisis


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 25 พฤศจิกายน 2564
พิมพ์
PM: Multilateralism is key to overcome global crisis
PM: Multilateralism is key to overcome global crisis
November 25, 2021, at 1505hrs (Thailand), at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha, in his capacity as ASEAN Coordinator, delivered a statement via a teleconference at the opening session of the 13th ASEM Summit (ASEM13). Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist as follows:
Cambodian Prime Minister host of the meeting mentioned the theme “Strengthening Multilateralism for Shared Growth”.  He emphasized that ASEM needs to get more cooperation for multilateralism, especially after the COVID-19.  This meeting is a chance for all leaders to put a strong effort into participating in ASEM on the world stage.
Thai Prime Minister expressed pleasure that the ASEM Summit returned to the ASEAN region again, which coincides with its 25th anniversary since the inaugurate ASEM Summit in Bangkok on March 1-2, 1996. Thailand believes that multilateralism is the key to overcome global crisis. Multilateral cooperation should be tangible on the basis of shared benefits between member countries. The Prime Minister also proposed the principle of “5Ps”, in accordance with the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) on which ASEM should place importance:
First is People. Priority should be placed on creating security of over 4 billion ASEM citizens, both in terms of health, wellbeing, and safety based on the principle of people-centered development without leaving any one behind. Universal, equitable and timely access to COVID-19 vaccines and universal health coverage must be promoted.
Second: Partnership on the basis of equality, trust, respect, and mutual interest must be promoted. Importance should be placed on multilateral partnership under international organization framework to prepare for and respond to future challenges.
Third is Peace. Cooperation among ASEM member countries must be promoted to reinforce a conducive environment for peace, and prevent regional competition and conflict which may be escalated to global conflicts.
Fourth is Prosperity. Member countries must grow together, and commit to multilateral trade system under WTO rules and regulations. Importance should be placed on adjustment to accommodate the 4th Industrial Revolution (4IR), especially upskilling and reskilling of the labor sector and SMEs, and improvement of global supply chain.
Last is Planet. ASEM needs to work together to preserve our planet through adopting a balanced approach towards development to ensure that all countries can achieve the SDGs by 2030.
The Prime Minister expressed hope that the meeting would encourage exchange of experiences and views that promote balanced, peaceful, secure, prosperous, and sustainable world we live in.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/48705