รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM hands down policy to promote Thailand as international dental hub


วันจันทร์ที่ 13 มิถุนายน 2565
​PM hands down policy to promote Thailand as international dental hub
​PM hands down policy to promote Thailand as international dental hub
June 12, 2022, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that Ministry of Public Health’s Department of Health Service Support has a plan to propel Thailand to become international dental hub, following Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha’s order to stimulate national economy and generate revenue through promoting Thailand as world’s medical hub and dental hub. The plan is to attract foreign tourists with the country’s high-potential dental services. The pilot program will be launched in Phuket.
According to the Government Spokesperson, promotion of medical industry is aimed not only to generate revenues to the country, but also to create employment and boost other related industries. Medical hub is one of the five new S-Curve industries, the future industries to be promoted to achieve the leap growth of Thai economy. The other four are: robotics, digital, aviation & logistics, and biofuels & biochemicals.
Under the policy to promote Thailand as dental hub, cosmetic dentistry will be highlighted, and service rates will be set as one-price policy. In preparation for the implementation, central database and an application will be developed, as well as the interpretation center, payment mechanism, dispute resolution system, and related facilitation system. Interested dental clinics may apply to be part of the program in the 3rd-4th quarter of this year.
The Prime Minister expressed confidence that medical tourism would be a big boost for Thai tourism and economy, and called on all concerned sectors to put collective effort in promoting medical tourism, and in sharing useful ideas and expertise for the benefit of the country’s socio-economic recovery.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/55648