รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Govt to implement measures to alleviate educational burden of students, parents, and teachers


วันอังคารที่ 17 สิงหาคม 2564
พิมพ์
Govt to implement measures to alleviate educational burden of students, parents, and teachers
Govt to implement measures to alleviate educational burden of students, parents, and teachers
August 16, 2021, at 0900hrs, at PMOC Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha presided over the virtual press conference on “Standpoint on Educational Burden Alleviation” under the COVID-19 situation. Attending the press conferencefrom Ratchawallop Building, Ministry of Education were Minister of Education Trinuch Thienthong and executives of theministry. Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist as follows:
Ministry of Education strives to relieve the burden of both students, parents, and teachers during the COVID-19 crisis, and has implemented 3 relief measures as follows:
1. Provision of 2,000-Baht subsidy to students of all affiliations (approx. 11 million students) for the total budget of 22 billion Baht. The subsidy will be given on August 31 or by early September
2. Free internet for e-learning: Ministry of Digital Economy and Society will provide free broadband internet, worth 600 million Baht, for online learning to approx. 3.6 million students nationwide during August 15 - October 15, 2021(2 months). There are two options for free internet privilege: 1) internet package top-up to a mobile phone number the student uses for online learning (either prepaid or post-paid) plus additional 2GB of internet; and 2) home internet subsidy through deduction of 79 Baht/month (VAT excluded) from the monthly internet bill.
3. Reduction of workload for both teachers and students:The number of class reports and projects, as well as criteria for teacher performance assessment, are to be reduced to only necessary. Teachers and students are encouraged to take on other forms of learning than online learning via computer or smartphone.
The Prime Minister instructed Ministry of Education, Ministry of Digital Economy and Society, and other concerned agencies to make use of technology and digital in developing educational models that are relevant with the New Normal. Teachers, students, and parents should be able to learn together and support one another under the active learning strategy. He also thanked all concerned sectors and agencies to come up with measures to alleviate educational burden of students, parents, and teachers in the COVID-19 crisis.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/44855