รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-New Zealand’s affirms full support on Thailand’s hosting of APEC 2022


วันอังคารที่ 9 สิงหาคม 2565
พิมพ์
New Zealand’s affirms full support on Thailand’s hosting of APEC 2022
New Zealand’s affirms full support on Thailand’s hosting of APEC 2022
August 8, 2022, at 1330hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Jonathan Dale Kings, Ambassador of New Zealand to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his assumption of the position. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed New Zealand Ambassador to Thailand, and hoped that he would continue to promote bilateral relations and cooperation at the sub-regional, regional, and multilateral levels. He also conveyed his regards to Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern, whom he has met in several occasions. New Zealand has passed on APEC chairmanship to Thailand in November 2021, and the Prime Minister hoped to welcome Prime Minister Ardern in Thailand this November.
The Ambassador expressed pleasure to have been tenured in Thailand. New Zealand has been keen to forge close and cordial relations and cooperation with Thailand in all dimensions, and considers the country an important friend. The Ambassador committed to continue promoting and taking forward various cooperation between the two countries, especially in trade and investment, and tourism to elevate people-to-people relations. Multilateral cooperation will also be pushed ahead under the frameworks of Mekong-subregion, ASEAN, Asia-Pacific, and cooperation at the global level.
Both parties were pleased with an increase of mutual trade value in 2021, which reflects trade and investment potential of the two countries despite the COVID-19 pandemic. The Prime Minister invited New Zealand investors to consider investment in the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC) in the areas of their expertise, such as, smart agriculture, and biotechnology, which is in line with both Thailand’s BCG economic model and New Zealand’s 30-year economic plan. Thailand strives to drive forward the new economy in parallel with technology and digital development in order to connect with the global supply chain more efficiently. New Zealand Ambassador expressed pleasure to take part in further increasing mutual trade value and promoting New Zealand’s private sector investment in the EEC.
The Prime Minister also hoped that the two sides enhance cooperation in livestock and agro technology under the project on sustainable increase of raw milk production efficiency, and in the area of food innovation that New Zealand has expertise. Both parties discussed multilateral cooperation, on which the Prime Minister commended cordial relations and cooperation between ASEAN and New Zealand throughout the past 47 years, and thanked New Zealand for providing assistance to ASEAN during the COVID-19 crisis. He was also pleased with New Zealand’s intention to be part of the Mekong subregional development, while the New Zealand Ambassador commended Thailand’s role in providing humanitarian assistance to Myanmar, and affirmed the country’s full support on Thailand’s hosting of APEC 2022.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/57832