รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM to push forward the Wellness Tourism and Medical Tourism to conform with tourism in COVID-19 situation


วันอังคารที่ 30 พฤศจิกายน 2564
พิมพ์
PM to push forward the Wellness Tourism and Medical Tourism to conform with tourism in COVID-19 situation
PM to push forward the Wellness Tourism and Medical Tourism to conform with tourism in COVID-19 situation
Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that one of the Government policies for economic and social recovery from COVID-19 is tourism promotion. Prime Minister also has ordered a strategic revision of tourism sector to conform with public health safety, declining number of visitors to Thailand and how to attract potential tourists.
Following the Prime Minister’s vision, the Tourism Authority of Thailand (TAT) has prepared to promote and expand Medical Tourism and Wellness Tourism in order to adjust Thailand’s tourism strategy in 2022 to be in line with the current situation. By shifting focus from mass tourism to high-value or high spending tourists such as Medical Tourism and Wellness Tourism with estimate per capita spending of 80,000-120,000 baht, including focus on the quality of tourism that will help create value added to products and services. Meanwhile, the Ministry of Public Health is ready to operate the “Strategic Plans of Developing Thailand as an International Medical Hub 2017-2026” promoting Thai herbs to Wellness Tourism such as Thai massage. This strategy will help generate income for local communities in various tourism areas.
Government Spokesperson also disclosed that Prime Minister acknowledged the progress and expressed his appreciation to all the related agencies. Prime Minister intended to mitigate the effect in tourism sector and assure the readiness to cope with new challenges. Tourism strategy will draw on the potential of Thailand's tourism and create value-added tourism. Tourists will find an impressive experience from traveling in Thailand.”

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/48883