รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM to visit Kamphaeng Phet province on July 7


วันพุธที่ 6 กรกฎาคม 2565
พิมพ์
PM to visit Kamphaeng Phet province on July 7
PM to visit Kamphaeng Phet province on July 7
July 5, 2022, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha is scheduled to take a field visit to Kamphaeng Phet province on July 7, 2022 to follow up on the implementations under the Government’s policies related to agriculture, poverty eradication, water management, and development of people of all ages. His schedule is as follows:
In the morning at 0915hrs, the Prime Minister will pay a homage to Kamphaeng Phet City Pillars, and the Abbot of Wat Khoo Yang Temple in Maung district. Then, he will visit a large-scale banana plantation at Phutsa subdistrict, Khlong Khlung district, where the Prime Minister will be briefed by the Governor of Kamphaeng Phet on the operation of the province’s Center for Poverty Eradication and Sustainable Development of People of All Ages under Sufficiency Economy Philosophy, and by head of Phutsa large-scale banana plantation. According to the Government Spokesperson, the development of large-scale farming by adopting modern agriculture and enhancing capacity of the farmers is one of the Government’s priorities to eradicate poverty, sustainably develop the people of all ages in accordance with the Sufficiency Economy Philosophy, and improve crop quality and productivity standards with appropriate modern technology.
The Prime Minister will, then, go to Wang Bua subdistrict, Khlong Khlung district to observe the work on poverty eradication and sustainable development of people of all ages under Sufficiency Economy Philosophy, and hand over houses donated by Kamphaeng Phet Red Cross Chapter under the Red Cross Housing Project implemented on auspicious occasion of His Majesty the King’s 70th birthday anniversary and Her Majesty Queen Sirikit The Queen Mother's 90th birthday anniversary.
In the afternoon, the Prime Minister will visit Nong Kwan temporary weir in Wang Kham subdistrict, Khlong Khlung district to observe the province’s water management and water source provision. Water contained will benefit the area of 101,000 rai covering Kamphaeng Phet’s Khlong Khlung and Khanu Waralak Buri districts, and Nakhon Sawan’s Banphot Pisai district. The Prime Minister will also meet with the people to hear their insights and problems.
Later in the day, he will observe the implementation of “Khanu Waralak Buri Model”, GAP (Good Agricultural Practices) rice farming community, at San Dor subdistrict, Khanu Waralak Buri district, and meet with the farmers and local people before returning to Bangkok. “Khanu Waralak Buri Model” is mobilized by an integration of over 800 farmers from 5 subdistricts in Khanu Waralak Buri district, and is a pilot model to rice farming communities in several provinces.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/56543