รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM’s statement delivered at UNEP@50


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 3 มีนาคม 2565
พิมพ์
PM’s statement delivered at UNEP@50
PM’s statement delivered at UNEP@50
March 3, 2022, at 1650hrs, Thailand time, or 1250hrs, Nairobi (Kenya) time, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha delivered a pre-recorded statement at the Special Session to Commemorate the 50th Anniversary of the Creation of United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP@50). Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist as follows:
The Prime Minister emphasized that the world has been facing with many environmental problems as well as the COVID-19 crisis which is resulted from unsustainable development that abuse nature and ecosystem, and expressed the need to enhance the role of UNEP in collaborating with the secretariat of Multilateral Environmental Agreements (MEAs), through the UNEP regional offices, in order to vigorously tackle the global environmental crises. Thailand is very proud to be the home of UNEP Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific, and the Prime Minister reaffirmed that the country will continue to strongly support UNEP.
At the national level, Thailand has strictly enforced environmental laws and policies based on scientific information as well as our wisdom and traditional knowledge. The country has also continuously developed environmental laws, and is currently in the process of advancing the relevant Acts. The Prime Minister wished that UNEP would be the lead UN agency in facilitating innovation and technology supports as well as other means of implementation to the member states, based on each national circumstances. As a chair of APEC this year, Thailand will promote Bio-Circular-Green Economic Model (BCG) as the key blueprint to drive the economic recovery after being hit by the COVID-19 pandemic. BCG will focus on “the balance of all things,” through advancing technology and innovation in which will certainly lead to the sustainable development.
According to the Government Spokesperson, UNEP@50 is now being held during March 3-4, 2022. This is a high-level segment held under theme: “Strengthening UNEP for the implementation of the environmental dimension of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development”. The High-Level Opening Ceremony was chaired by President Uhuru Kenyatta of the Republic of Kenya, who also delivered an opening speech, and was participated by national leaders and heads of international organizations, such as UN Secretary-General António Guterres, Executive Director of the United Nations Environment Programme Inger Andersen, President Mokgweetsi Masisi of the Republic of Botswana, and President Muhammadu Buhari of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
Leaders of other countries across the world have also delivered their pre-recorded statement at the event.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/52177