รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM thanks U.S. for handing over additional COVID-19 diagnostic and vaccine delivery supplies


วันพุธที่ 9 กุมภาพันธ์ 2565
​PM thanks U.S. for handing over additional COVID-19 diagnostic and vaccine delivery supplies
​PM thanks U.S. for handing over additional COVID-19 diagnostic and vaccine delivery supplies
February 9, 2022, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha thanked the U.S. Government and Mr. Michael Heath, Chargé d' Affaires a.i. of the U.S. Mission in Thailand, for handing over additional COVID-19 diagnostic and vaccine delivery supplies, worth over $1.5 million (49.5 million baht), to help Thailand fight COVID-19. This gesture reflects friendship and close relations between the two countries and commitment of the Government of both Thailand and the U.S. in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic together.
The supplies provided on behalf of the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) include reagents for Real-Time RT-PCR diagnostic tests, next generation sequencing for variant detection, vaccine delivery supplies, and personal protective equipment. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Public Health, Anutin Charnvirakul represented the Thai Government to receive the COVID-19 diagnostic and vaccine delivery supplies on February 7, 2022.
To date, USAID has provided more than $12.4 million (409 million baht) in COVID-19 assistance, and sustained support to boost Thailand’s diagnostic capacity for emerging infectious diseases of pandemic potential. At the inception of the pandemic, more than a decade of USAID support in partnership with Thailand for detection of emerging viruses contributed to Thailand’s confirmation of the first traveler-imported COVID-19 case. USAID also provided personal protective equipment for Thai health workers; reached more than 117,000 migrants and persons from high-risk communities with vital COVID-19 information; and strengthened diagnostic and testing surge capacity.
According to the Government Spokesperson, U.S. long-term support and provision of supplies have helped enhance Thailand’s public healthcare capacity in handling emerging infectious diseases, and contributed to the more efficient response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Thai Government would ensure proper management and distribution of the provided supplies for the best interest of the Thai people.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/51388