รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with JBIC governor to discuss cooperation in infrastructure development


วันศุกร์ที่ 20 พฤษภาคม 2565
พิมพ์
PM meets with JBIC governor to discuss cooperation in infrastructure development
PM meets with JBIC governor to discuss cooperation in infrastructure development
May 19, 2022, at 15.30 hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Mr. Tadashi Maeda, Governor of Japan’s Bank of International Cooperation (JBIC), paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure to meet with JBIC Governor once again after their last meeting in 2019. Japan has ranked as the nation with biggest investment in Thailand and the EEC. As this year marks the 135th anniversary of the diplomatic relations between the two countries, the Prime Minister is pleased with the successful visit of the Japanese Prime Minister at the beginning of this month. The two Prime Ministers had a chance to discuss elevation of Thailand-Japan strategic partnership, and agreed on promoting comprehensive economic cooperation.
JBIC Governor also expressed pleasure to meet with the Prime Minister. Thailand and Japan, through JBIC, have continued to forge close cooperation, especially under the ACMECS framework. Priority has been made on the development of  infrastructure in the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC). He also hoped that the two sides discuss in detail the financial model for the EEC investment, and noted the Prime Minister’s impending visit to Japan to attend the 27th International Conference on the Future of Asia (Nikkei Forum), which could be a good opportunity for further discussion on cooperation between the two countries for mutual interest.
The Prime Minister thanked JBIC for financing the high-speed rail project linking the three airports, and affirmed Thailand’s adherence to the international principle of transparency, sustainability, inclusiveness, economic feasibility, and law enforcement. The country welcomes more of the Japanese investments in infrastructure development, i.e., Bangkok-Chiang Mai high-speed railroad, and EEC infrastructure development. JBIC Governor committed to promote Japanese investment in Thailand, especially in railway car body and signaling system manufacturing.
The Prime Minister took the opportunity to thank JBIC for supporting investment of Japanese hi-tech and innovative firms in Thailand. He also mentioned the country’s BCG economic model and the Thai Government’s intent to promote human resource development. The Government is pleased with Japan’s establishment of more KOSEN Institutes in Thailand. JBIC Governor commended the Prime Minister’s role on the environment issue, and affirmed JBIC’s readiness to work together with the Thai Government on environmental-friendly energy development.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/54824