รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Cabinet acknowledges Thailand’s improvement in IMD competitiveness ranking


วันพุธที่ 23 มิถุนายน 2564
พิมพ์
Cabinet acknowledges Thailand’s improvement in IMD competitiveness ranking
Cabinet acknowledges Thailand’s improvement in IMD competitiveness ranking
June 22, 2021, at the Government House, following the weekly cabinet meeting, Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that the cabinet acknowledged Thailand’s rank in the 2021 World Competitiveness Rankings, announced by IMD World Competitiveness Center on June 17, 2021, which is up one rank to 28th, out of 64 economies. This year, as a result of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, average total score of all the 64 economies significantly dropped from 71.82 in 2020 to 63.99 in 2021. As for Thailand, although the total score has decreased comparing to that of the previous year (75.39), it is still above the average at 72.52. With this, Thailand remains 3rd in ranking among the 5 ASEAN countries as follows: 1st Singapore (down 4 notches to 5th), 2nd Malaysia (up 2 notches to 25th), 3rd Thailand, 4th Indonesia (up 3 notches to 37th), and 5th the Philippines (down 7 notches to 52nd).
Under IMD’s world competitiveness index, Thailand performed better in 3 competitiveness landscapes, namely, 1) Government Efficiency (up 3 notches) with the transparency of government policy, and legal and regulatory framework which encourages the competitiveness of enterprises; 2) Business Efficiency (up 2 notches), due to the effort of the Government and business sector to sustain employment and promote personnel development; 3) Infrastructure (up 1 notch), with the Government’s continued investment in large-scale infrastructure projects.
However, the country’s economic performance factor has declined by 7 notches. COVID-19, and economic slowdown have negatively attributed to the indicators related to import and export and inward foreign investment, among others. The criterion on tourism receipts has also significantly declined due to the prolonged pandemic.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Prime Minister has made an order for all Government agencies to expedite improvement of their database to reflect actual development situation. They are also urged to create awareness and understanding of business and people sectors, and drive forward public investment in physical, scientific and digital infrastructure in a bid to improve Thailand’s competitiveness rank in an effective and steady manner. Public healthcare system must also be improved to prepare for possible new and re-emerging infectious diseases. Office of National Economic and Social Development Council will host joint meetings between public and private sectors to brainstorm on and determine tangible measures that will push forward plans and projects for the improvement of the country’s competitiveness rank.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/42990