รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM to ensure that all groups be benefited from Govt’s measures


วันศุกร์ที่ 3 กันยายน 2564
พิมพ์
PM to ensure that all groups be benefited from Govt’s measures
PM to ensure that all groups be benefited from Govt’s measures
Sep 1, 2021, at 1130hrs, at the censure debate against individual ministers held during the 1st annual ordinary session (3rd Year) of the House of Representatives, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha has made clarification on various issues that were raised during the debate. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist as follows:
Tourism: The Government focuses more on quality tourism than quantity tourism. The 120-day country reopening plan has started with the Phuket Sandbox scheme, and will be scaled up to cover other potential provinces or certain areas of some provinces, pending the COVID-19 situation, by this October. Ministry of Tourism and Sports will be able to provide the more detailed and accurate information on the matter.
Relief provision: The Government has implemented loan interest rate reduction scheme and moratorium on debt repayment scheme; addressed household debts, student loan debts, and other debts; promoted SME’s accessibility to soft loan; provided relief to the vulnerability groups; and expedited amendment of laws, among others, all of which have benefited over 30-40 million people. More measures are to be implemented in line with the emerging situation. The Prime Minister expressed confidence that the development of infrastructure, currently undertaken, will reap benefits in 4-5 years.
Agriculture: The Government strives to continuously solve problems related to agriculture, e.g., implementing large-scale farming scheme, promoting alternative cropping, developing land reform for better productivity, promoting area-based agro production, developing learning centers and training programs, managing agriculture funds and public sector loans, developing water sources outside of the irrigation areas, promoting farmers’ accessibility to knowledge, knowhow, etc.
SMEs development: The Government has implemented a number of measures to develop business skills, empower Micro SMEs and SMEs, promote their accessibility to soft loans, develop training programs to enhance SMEs 4.0, promote offline and online e-commerce, uplift the nation’s capacity through promoting S-Curve industries and BCG economy, and update BOI investment criteria to be in line with the current global situation, among others.
Human quality and capacity development: Long-term development and quality enhancement has been carried out through educational management (from pre-schooling to 12-year basic education). Social security system has been expanded and upgraded to include informal workers. The Government also implements measures to promote health security, create public awareness on wellbeing, and promote digital infrastructure development and public accessibility to Government data.
Foreign affairs: The Government runs the balance of power policy. Thailand’s participation at the international stage has been well accepted by other national leaders. The Government also strives to learn about other countries’ successful endeavors to be adopted in Thailand.
According to the Prime Minister, the Government is well aware of the plights of all sectors, and commits to take good care of people of all groups and activities. He insisted that the Thai economy was not worse than other countries under the COVID-19 situation. Post-COVID-19 measures have all been prepared and ready to be implemented. The Prime Minister called for public understanding on the Government’s endeavor to solve both existing and emerging problems, and plan for the future.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/45505