รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Govt Spokesperson: Opposition should not escalate censure motion outside of Parliament


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 26 สิงหาคม 2564
พิมพ์
​Govt Spokesperson: Opposition should not escalate censure motion outside of Parliament
​Govt Spokesperson: Opposition should not escalate censure motion outside of Parliament
August 26, 2021, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana stated about the press conference of leader of Pheu Thai Party Sompong Amornvivat to call on the public to cast the no-confidence vote against the Government of Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha. According to the Government Spokesperson, the Opposition may need to think it over whether such act is appropriate, as the censure debate is a parliamentary mechanism through which the Opposition may legitimately scrutinize the Government’s national administration. If the Opposition is confident with the information at hand, they may present the information and proceed according to the parliamentary procedure, and not escalate the matter outside of the Parliament. The Government Spokesperson also emphasized that the debate should be carried out in a rational manner with no slandering nor defamation. The Government would also like to take the opportunity to clarify to the public about various policy implementations.
With regard to the Opposition’s allegation claiming that the Government and the Prime Minister can only remain in the position with the votes of the Coalition plus those of the Senators, the Government Spokesperson stated that such allegation may be deemed disrespectful to the senators and fellow MPs, as they have their own judgment, and no one can force or order them to do anything. Both Coalition and Opposition MPs are people’s representatives with similar dignity and rights. What is, in fact, sustaining the Government’s position is the people’s faith and confidence over the Prime Minister. As the Government has been putting utmost effort to address the COVID-19 crisis, it hopes to be fully cooperated by the public, for the country and everyone to leap through the crisis.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/45183