รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM orders intensive coordination with Saudi Arabia to expedite revival of Thailand-Saudi Arabia relations


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 3 กุมภาพันธ์ 2565
​PM orders intensive coordination with Saudi Arabia to expedite revival of Thailand-Saudi Arabia relations
​PM orders intensive coordination with Saudi Arabia to expedite revival of Thailand-Saudi Arabia relations
February 2, 2022, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that following the historic visit of Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha to Saudi Arabia to revive Thailand-Saudi Arabia relations in 30 years, which has led to bilateral dialogues in various dimensions, the Prime Minister has instructed agencies responsible for economic affairs, international relations, and labor to follow up and expedite implementation according to the agreements made during the dialogues. Deputy Prime Minister and Energy Minister Supattanapong Punmeechaow, and Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Don Pramudwinai were also ordered to set up a committee to monitor related operational progress toward tangible achievement. Ministry of Labor was ordered to coordinate with concerned agencies to prepare for the visit of Saudi Arabian minister this month to sign an MOU, which will take place 2 months ahead of the schedule.
With regard to the progress made by Ministry of Labor, skilled workforces have been arranged and prepared according to Saudi Arabia's demand of over 8 million migrant workers in service and hotel sector, healthcare, and construction. The Ministry has met with the Thai Overseas Manpower Association (TOMATHAI) to discuss further detail relating to travel process and expenses under the principle "Sourced by Government, Dispatched by Private Sector". Meanwhile, Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been working to normalize diplomatic relations between the two countries. At the initial stage, ambassadors will be appointed to respective capitals, while consultative mechanisms will also be set up to consolidate bilateral cooperation. Both countries agreed to cooperate and support each other within the multilateral frameworks of OIC, ASEAN, GCC, and APEC under Thailand's chairmanship this year.
With regard to economic cooperation, Thailand strives to create trade and investment opportunities, especially the Thai Halal food industry, and to become medical and tourism hub for Saudi Arabians. Direct flights between the two countries will soon be launched.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Prime Minister emphasized that this is a very good opportunity for Thailand to reinvigorate economic cooperation and revive diplomatic relations, as well as expand Thai labor and tourism market with Saudi Arabia in 30 years.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/51210