รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-2-month debt moratorium implemented to help SMEs and small business


วันจันทร์ที่ 19 กรกฎาคม 2564
พิมพ์
2-month debt moratorium implemented to help SMEs and small business
2-month debt moratorium implemented to help SMEs and small business
Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha has made an order for concerned agency to work together with financial institutions in coming up with new measures to assist debtors in the vulnerability groups.
The Bank of Thailand has collaborated with the Thai Bankers' Association, the Association of International Bank, and the Government Financial Institutions Association (GFA) to implement a moratorium on principal and interest payments for SMEs and small-scale debtors, both employers and employees in businesses that are forced close as a result of the Government’s measures or orders related to the control of COVID-19. Debt moratorium will be in effect for 2 months during July and August debt service cycles.
Financial institutions participated in the program include Thai and international commercial banks, non-banks, and members of associations for personal loans, credit cards, and vehicle title loan trade. Suspension will cover all types of debts, including credit card debts. Debtors may contact their institutional creditors to request for the debt moratorium from July 19, 2021 onward.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the 2-month debt moratorium program is a short-term measure to alleviate financial burden of the impacted debtors throughout the country. However, capable debtors are strongly suggested to continue paying their debt services to prevent unnecessarily increase of future debt burden. Those who are in the middle of the debt restructuring program are also advised to continue with the process in order to solve the problem in the more sustainable manner. According to the Bank of Thailand, under the debt moratorium program, suspended debts will still be deemed ‘good debts’, and will not become a default in the credit bureau.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/43876