รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-ASEAN leaders and U.S. President exchange views on regional and global issues


วันเสาร์ที่ 14 พฤษภาคม 2565
พิมพ์
ASEAN leaders and U.S. President exchange views on regional and global issues
ASEAN leaders and U.S. President exchange views on regional and global issues
May 13, 2022, at 1600hrs (Washington DC, U S.A. local time), at the U.S. Department of State, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha attended and delivered a statement at the meeting between ASEAN leaders and U.S. President Joe Biden. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of his statement as follows:
The Prime Minister thanked U.S. President for the warm welcome. He was of the view that the ASEAN-U.S. Special Summit, which is held to celebrate 45 years of the ASEAN-U.S. Dialogue Relations, was a good opportunity to discuss ways and means to intensify cooperation in various areas amidst the vulnerable global situation and more complex challenges with regard to the issues of public health, supply chains, inflation, energy crisis, and international conflict.
According to the Prime Minister, ASEAN and the U.S. should “look ahead” and move toward “comprehensive strategic partnership”. The most important goal is to stably and sustainably develop peaceful, strong, and resilient regions for the Next Normal era. He proposed that ASEAN and the U.S. enhance collective effort to build “new landscape” in the following 3 areas:
First is “security landscape conducive to sustainable recovery and growth”, which could be realized with strong regional architecture and the environment of trust. The Prime Minister was pleased with the new Indo-Pacific Strategy of the United States which is also aimed at contributing to ASEAN empowerment, and expressed hope that the strategy, as well as such other initiatives as AUKUS and Quad, would be directed in a constructive manner to support ASEAN centrality and ASEAN’s view on the Indo-Pacific.
He also hoped that all the key players, including the U.S., a global powerhouse who has long been ASEAN’s friend and partner, would work together to find common and proper solutions to the ongoing vulnerabilities and complex challenges. ASEAN stands ready to take part in this endeavor, as an important regional platform, to link all the key players in order to create the peaceful geopolitical landscape.
Second is “economic landscape that is driven by digital technology and strong supply chains”. Since the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, the number of digital consumers in ASEAN has increased to 60 million. This indicates that the region will soon become the world’s major digital market. Thailand endorses ASEAN-U.S. cooperation in the development of regional digital infrastructure through United States International Development Finance Corporation (USDFC). Focus should be made on promoting easy access to everyone and enhancing digital capacity of labors and entrepreneurs , particularly the MSMEs and startups, to increase their digital competitiveness.
In addition, COVID-19 pandemic has emphasized the importance of strong supply chain connectivity. In the most immediate phase, the Prime Minister proposed that ASEAN and the U.S. expedite discussion on the linkage between ASEAN Single Window and the U.S. import-export system to facilitate cross-border movement of goods. In the long run, the Prime Minister is confident that ASEAN has the potential to become essential to the U.S. supply chain, especially in EV manufacturing, medical supplies and industry, and biotechnology. Thailand’s Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC) has capacity and logistics that accommodate the development of these industries.
Third is “landscape for more powerful climate action”. Thailand views that the collective effort of every country is needed to promote economic growth in tandem with environment protection and human security enhancement. Thailand has adopted the BCG Economic Model and proposed the model as fundamental concept for the country’s hosting of APEC 2022 with an aim to promote “Open. Connect. Balance.” The BCG Economic Model is in line with the U.S.’s economic initiative of “Build Back Better World”.
With regard to the climate change, Thailand has expressed willingness, at the World Leaders Summit of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Conference of the Parties (COP26), to be more aggressive in addressing the climate change challenges in every way and every means possible, by aiming at reaching carbon neutrality in 2050, and Net Zero Greenhouse Gas Emissions in or before 2065. Should ASEAN and the U.S. agree to increase investment cooperation and technology transfer in low-carbon industry, green infrastructure, and clean energy, as well as sustainable financial support, ASEAN member countries, including Thailand, would be able to achieve the goals sooner.
The Prime Minister expressed belief that the proposed areas of cooperation will lead ASEAN-U.S. strategic partnership to a new chapter, and prove the cruciality of ASEAN-U.S. cooperation in promoting peace, stability and prosperity in the region. He also expressed pleasure to welcome President Biden on a visit to Thailand to attend the APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting in November this year.
After the meeting, the Prime Minister and delegation left Washington D.C. at 1800hrs to arrive in Thailand on May 15, at 0540hrs.
.......................
At the 2nd ASEAN-U.S. Special Summit, ASEAN leaders and the U.S. President have adopted “Joint Vision Statement” which outlines the joint intent to promote relations and cooperation toward comprehensive strategic partnership, create the region’s peaceful environment, and support ASEAN centrality. Areas of cooperation and priorities stipulated in the Joint Vision Statement include:
1.Building better health security, and recovering together through strengthening regional and national health systems and capabilities.
2.Strengthening Economic Ties and Connectivity through advancing stronger, more equitable, more inclusive economic growth and sustainable development.
3.Promoting Maritime Cooperation
4.Enhancing People-to-people connectivity
5.Supporting Sub-regional Development
6.Leveraging Technologies and Promoting Innovation
7.Addressing Climate Change
8.Cooperation on regional and international issues

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/54580