รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM’s field trip in Chonburi to observe implementation of “Factory Sandbox scheme”


วันศุกร์ที่ 17 กันยายน 2564
พิมพ์
PM’s field trip in Chonburi to observe implementation of “Factory Sandbox scheme”
PM’s field trip in Chonburi to observe implementation of “Factory Sandbox scheme”
September 17, 2021, at 0930hrs, at Mitsubishi Motors Co.,Ltd. in Laem Chabang, Chonburi province, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha observed the implementation of Factory Sandbox scheme, a pilot measure for COVID-19 control and  prevention within a factory compound.
Mr. Morikazu Chokki, President and CEO of Mitsubishi Motors Thailand, expressed appreciation toward the Prime Minister and the Government for implementing the Factory Sandbox scheme to enhance safety and minimize disease transmission probability among factory workers, their family, and local communities. Helping nearby communities and society to overcome the crisis is the company’s important mission as a Thai citizen. With the Factory Sandbox scheme, Mitsubishi can continue its operation, as one of Thailand’s leading automotive manufacturer and exporter, to be able to contribute to the country’s economic recovery.
Mr. Ogawa Eiji, representative of the Japanese investors, pointed out to the Prime Minister concerned issues regarding investment and export, and called for the Thai Government to provide the following supports to businesses that are based in Chonburi and Rayong provinces:
Expanding implementation of the Factory Sandbox scheme to other businesses in the two provinces, and ensuring equitable allocation of the COVID-19 vaccines
Easing quarantine measure, starting from shortening the quarantine period to lifting the measure, in a bid to normalize international travel of the private sector
Providing full support to the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC) and developing infrastructure and international logistics capacity to enhance business operation in the two provinces
The Prime Minister thanked Japan and the Japanese Prime Minister for their long-standing friendship, as well as Japanese investors for their confidence in Thailand. The Thai Government stands ready to cooperate with them in various dimensions, and would welcome more Japanese investment in the country. He also called on everyone to join forces in reinventing Thailand for the country to move forward into the future.
With regard to the vaccination, the Prime Minister has instructed provincial governors and concerned local agencies to make sure people get vaccinated as many as possible, especially workers who are the driving force of the manufacturing system. This is to boost confidence of foreign entrepreneurs and attract more investment to Thailand. He also committed that the Government would acquire more vaccines to cover everyone in the country.
The Prime Minister also called on the industrial sector to be aware of the global warming issue, and transform their businesses into the more environmental-friendly ones. Provincial governors are assigned to promote modern agriculture practices among the farmers in a bid to reduce cost and increase value of agro products. Farmers’ productive land tenure must be legalized to prevent any possible trade barrier in the future. The Prime Minister also expressed content with the implementation of Factory Sandbox at large-scale plants, but was concerned of the scheme implementation efficiency at the medium and small-scale factories. Nevertheless, he affirmed the Government’s commitment to expand implementation of the Factory Sandbox scheme as part of the economic recovery effort to boost confidence of the investors.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/45945