รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM proposes 3 priorities to further strengthen and deepen relations between ASEAN and China


วันจันทร์ที่ 22 พฤศจิกายน 2564
พิมพ์
​PM proposes 3 priorities to further strengthen and deepen relations between ASEAN and China
​PM proposes 3 priorities to further strengthen and deepen relations between ASEAN and China
November 22, 2021, at 0900hrs, at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha attended via a teleconference the ASEAN-China Special Summit to Commemorate the 30th Anniversary of ASEAN-China Dialogue Relations which was co-chaired by His Majesty Sultan Haji Hassanal Bolkiah, Sultan and Yang Di-Pertuan of Brunei Darussalam and President Xi Jinping of People’s Republic of China. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister extended his congratulations on the 30th Anniversary of ASEAN-China Dialogue Relations. Today’s meeting is an opening of the new chapter in ASEAN-China history as a “Comprehensive Strategic Partnership”, which will further strengthen and deepen relations, leading to enhancement of cooperation in all dimensions in a concrete manner. This will also lead to advancing into the new decades together in a secure, prosperous and sustainable manner. ASEAN-China dialogue relations have unique prominence and has been the main pillar of cooperation for promotion of durable peace and shared prosperity in the region with the continued and collective achievements cover all dimensions, including the signing of the Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea (DOC) in 2002. China is the first Dialogue Partner with the Strategic Partnership status in 2003, and most recently the establishment of Comprehensive Strategic Partnership this year. ASEAN and China become each other’s top trading partner in 2020 and jointly battle the COVID-19 pandemic and global economic downturn together. These are all significant developments towards forging even closer partnership in the future.
The Prime Minister also took this opportunity to extend congratulations to President Xi Jinping and the people of China on the occasion of the Centenary of the Founding of the Communist Party, and commended China’s manifest achievements in numerous dimensions, both the development towards the moderately prosperous society in a comprehensive manner and the rise to become a responsible global major power, which are truly the inspirations for other countries. The Prime Minister also praised President Xi’s vision, announced at the Centenary of the Founding of the Communist Party which aims to build a “human community with a shared future”. The vision demonstrates China’s commitment to addressing the common challenges and creating the liveable world, and is in line with ASEAN’s vision to promote a resilient Community and win-win cooperation.
Thailand has set out the national development vision with a view to elevating people’s quality of life and improving their capacities to be ready for the 21st Century. Amidst the COVID-19 pandemic and other pressing challenges, the country is advancing into the “Next Normal by reinventing Thailand”. The Prime Minister suggested 3 priorities to attach utmost importance to as follows:
First, people-centered development that leaves no one behind should be focused, and people’s quality of life should be elevated for their well-being, in line with the Sufficiency Economy Philosophy, which guides people to live on the basis of moderation, reasonableness and self-immunity in coping with future challenges and emergencies. ASEAN can exchange with and learn from China’s achievements on several aspects, such as sustainable agriculture including in manufacturing, processing, and value-adding for agricultural products.  ASEAN can exchange with and learn from China’s achievements on poverty and hunger eradication, food security promotion through the “Clean Plate” Policy.  Furthermore, Thailand supports China’s continued and constructive role in narrowing development gaps both in ASEAN and the sub-regions, particularly the Mekong-Lancang Cooperation framework, under which Thailand will assume co-chairmanship with China in 2022, and ACMECS, of which China is one of the key Development Partners.
Second, ASEAN and China should focus on enhancing our socio-economic resilience from the grassroots. This includes reforming learning process and developing potentials of people across all ages by utilizing science, technology and innovation in an appropriate and safe manner in order to promote. Competitiveness must also be improved, both in terms of scale and speed, as well as boost potentials of the business sector, particularly MSMEs, women entrepreneurs and vulnerable groups, to prepare them for the 4IR and digital transformation. ASEAN and China should add value to our economic partnership by promoting digital economy and e-commerce in tandem with expeditiously building digital society for well-being in the Next Normal era.
Third, sustainable and environmentally-friendly development is necessary for the survival of mankind. Thailand reaffirms commitment to continuing the proactive role in advancing cooperation in this field both at the regional and global levels, by focusing on promoting balance of all things and sustainability in all dimensions. Thailand proposes the BCG Economy Model as one of the approaches to achieve those goals. Thailand is ready to earnestly make progress in addressing climate change by every means possible with a view to reaching carbon neutrality by 2050 and net zero emission by 2065, which I had pledged at the recent COP26.
The Prime Minister also reiterated the importance to maintain regional peace and stability, and the importance of preserving strategic equilibrium in the ASEAN-centered regional architecture and promoting peaceful and stable environment in the region, particularly the major power relations. Such a spirit of cooperation is hoped to transcend into other areas of cooperation based on the 3M principles, namely mutual trust, mutual respect, and mutual benefit, to create an environment conducive to recovery by all countries from the trauma caused by COVID-19.
Lastly, the Prime Minister extended congratulations once again for the meeting on this auspicious occasion of the 30th Anniversary of ASEAN-China dialogue relations, and reaffirmed Thailand’s unwavering commitment to cooperate in forging partnership to be ever secure, prosperous and sustainable.  In this regard, President Xi Jinping has confirmed his support for Thailand’s hosting APEC 2022.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/48529