รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with MEDEF International's French private sector.


วันจันทร์ที่ 4 กรกฎาคม 2565
PM meets with MEDEF International's French private sector.
PM meets with MEDEF International's French private sector.
July 1, 2022, at 1100hrs, at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House, the delegation of Mouvement des Entreprises de France (MEDEF International), led by Mr. François Corbin, MEDEF International vice president, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on the occasion of their visit to Thailand. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed the gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed the MEDEF delegation to Thailand, the first ASEAN country they visited after a long hiatus due to the COVID-19 pandemic. This visit of the French delegation came after the signing of the roadmap for Thailand-France relations (2022-2024), which is expected to lead to an elevation of strategic partnership between the two countries in 2024.
The Prime Minister commended close cooperation between the Thai and French private sectors and expressed the Thai Government's commitment to further advancing economic cooperation, especially the investment in S-Curve industries in the Eastern Economy Corridor (EEC).
The French Ambassador to Thailand, who also attended the meeting, expressed appreciation toward the Prime Minister for his warm welcome. MEDEF International, France’s largest private organization, has participated in the France-Thailand Business Forum held on June 30, 2022, where both Thai and French private sector discussed potential areas of cooperation for mutual interest. The meeting resulted in very successful and tangible outcomes.
The MEDEF International vice president informed the Prime Minister that the delegation of MEDEF International comprises representatives from various business areas. Realizing Thailand’s economic potential and investment opportunity, the French business sector expressed interest in increasing their investment in the country. In addition, Thailand and France have forged close relations and trust for over 30 years. Thailand’s location as a regional hub is also strategic, and the French business sector is confident in the potential growth and positive development of the Thai market, as well as the Thai Government’s policies that are conducive to inward foreign investment. The French private sector stands ready to take part in Thailand’s economic development and to promote comprehensive cooperation with the Thai counterpart, especially in production, development, and personnel skill enhancement.
According to the Prime Minister, the Thai Government is well aware of the current global economic challenges, including food and energy security, and strives to implement economic measures to mitigate their impact on businesses and people. The issues of climate change, resource sustainability, and biodiversity have also been prioritized. MEDEF International commended the Prime Minister’s policy of carbon neutrality and affirmed their commitment to climate action, especially the use of clean energy. They also expressed confidence in Thailand’s capacity and remarkable development in renewable energy. The Prime Minister hoped that both sides leverage existing public and private cooperation mechanisms to propel relations and cooperation for mutual interest and affirmed that the Thai Government is ready to work together with the French private sector toward economic sustainability.
********************
The delegation of Mouvement des Entreprises de France (MEDEF International) comprised 26 management-level members from 20 leading companies in such areas as construction engineering and automotive engineering, land and sea transport systems and technologies, aviation and aerospace, electrical equipment manufacturing from clean/renewable energy, water and waste management, and energy management, etc.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/56500