รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM affirms Thailand’s commitment to end COVID-19 and build back better


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 23 กันยายน 2564
พิมพ์
​PM affirms Thailand’s commitment to end COVID-19 and build back better
​PM affirms Thailand’s commitment to end COVID-19 and build back better
September 22, 2021, at 22.00-01.00hrs (11.00-14.00 hrs in New York, USA), Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha delivered a statement via a teleconference at the “Global COVID-19 Summit: Ending the Pandemic and Building Back Better”, held in Washington DC, USA.
Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of his statement as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed pleasured to be invited to attend the Summit as Thailand always believes in multilateral collaboration in ending the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic and being prepared for future health-related threats. He also affirmed the Thai Government’s commitment on the following three main targets:
1. Thailand has declared nationwide vaccination strategy as national agenda, setting the target of at least 70% of the vaccinated population by the end of this year. The Thai Government has also invested in research and development in order to locally produce the COVID-19 vaccines. Thailand stands ready to cooperate with potential partners to increase capacity of vaccine production in the region, thereby further strengthening global health security.
2. Thailand supports the target to increase production capacity of much-needed medical supplies and pharmaceutical products to ensure that medical and frontline personnel, as well as the general public, are well protected and safe from the pandemic, and to speed up the return to normalcy. Thailand has extended technical assistance and capacity building support in the area of health to the neighboring countries, as well as medical supplies, such as medical masks, PPEs, etc., to over 10 countries with high infection rates, and commits to do more. The country also extends appreciation toward the US and our friends who have provided assistance, and valuable supports during the difficult time.
3. Thailand agrees in principle that we need to further strengthen pandemic preparedness and responses at both national, regional, and global levels. The country supports the WHO process of developing a pandemic treaty. Meanwhile Thailand is revising our Communicable Disease Act in line with the international health regulations, which we hope will help increase the effectiveness of our responses and preparedness against the COVID-19 and future pandemics.
The “Global COVID-19 Summit: Ending the Pandemic and Building Back Better” was chaired by US President Joe Biden. Participation of the Prime Minister at the Summit demonstrated Thailand’s spirited commitment and support for the global effort to end the COVID-19 pandemic and to build back better.
Other than the Global COVID-19 Summit: Ending the Pandemic and Building Back Better, the Prime Minister’s schedule to virtually attend the 76th Session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA76) and related meetings is as follows:
September 23, 2021: The Food Systems Summit
September 24, 2021: High-level Dialogue on Energy
September 25, 2021: General debate

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/46131