รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Govt commits to take into consideration proposals of National Fisheries Association of Thailand


วันอาทิตย์ที่ 19 มิถุนายน 2565
Govt commits to take into consideration proposals of National Fisheries Association of Thailand
Govt commits to take into consideration proposals of National Fisheries Association of Thailand
Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that on June 17, 2022, at 1330hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, President of National Fisheries Association of Thailand (NFAT) Mongkol Sukcharoenkana led the NFAT delegation to pay a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha to clarify the summary report of the Environmental Justice Foundation (EJF) submitted to the Thai Government, and discussed with the Prime Minister on the problems of Thai fisherfolks and the ways to address those problems. Attending the meeting were PM’s Secretary General Distat Hotrakitya, PM’s Advisor Gen. Natthapol Nakpanich, Deputy Government Spokesperson Ratchada Thanadirek, Permanent Secretary to the Prime Minister’s Office Teerapat Prayoonsit, Deputy Permanent Secretary to Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, and Director-General of Fishery Department Chalermchai Suwannarak. Gist of the meeting is as follows:
NFAT representatives expressed appreciation toward the Prime Minister and the Government for their constant assistance and support provided to Thai fisherfolks, especially loan provision. They also called on the Government to address some issues of their concern, i.e., revision of the Fishery Act, B.E. 2558 and 2560 and related organic laws (Ministerial regulation on issuance of fishing permits, PM’s Office regulation on seafarer identity document, and Interior ministerial regulation on permission of stay for certain types of aliens as a special case), the problem related to import of aquatic animals, and acceleration of amnesty process for radio system in fishing vessels.
The Prime Minister affirmed that concerned agencies, be it, Ministry of Agriculture and the Fishery Department, would be assigned to take into consideration, prioritize, and properly implement proposals made by NFAT. The Government will also do its best to control oil prices in line with the current situation for the best interest of the country and people. He believes that the problem of oil and gasoline price hike would be resolved if the Russia-Ukraine situation becomes better.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/55855