รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Govt launches websites to provide counseling and assistance on internet crimes against children, child sexual abuse and online sex trafficking


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 18 สิงหาคม 2565
พิมพ์
​Govt launches websites to provide counseling and assistance on internet crimes against children, child sexual abuse and online sex trafficking
​Govt launches websites to provide counseling and assistance on internet crimes against children, child sexual abuse and online sex trafficking
August 16, 2022, at 08.45 hrs, at Santi Maitri Building, Government House, prior to the weekly cabinet meeting, Deputy Government Spokesperson Ratchada Thanadirek disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha was presented with a publicity campaign on the launch of the websites: www.help.ticac.org and www.คลิปหลุดทำไง.com to provide counseling and assistance to children and parents on internet crimes against children, and child sexual abuse and online sex trafficking. Participating in the event were Minister of Interior Gen. Anupong Paojinda, Prime Minister’s Secretary General Distat Hotrakitya, and Pol Maj Gen Surachate Hakparn, Assistant Police Commissioner-General and head of Thailand Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force (TICAC).
The website development program is led by Prime Minister's Delivery Unit under the Office of Prime Minister’s Secretary-General, in collaboration with other concerned agencies, such as King Prajadhipok's Institute, The Hug Project, and Family Connection Foundation. It is implemented in accordance with the Government’s policy to suppress online child sexual abuse, which is another form of human trafficking, an issue announced as “National Agenda”. The Criminal Code has also been amended to add Sections 287/1 and 287/2 to criminalize sexual exploitation and abuse of minors. The two websites: www.help.ticac.org and www.คลิปหลุดทำไง.com will later be transferred to TICAC under the authority of the Royal Thai Police’s Centre for the Advocacy of Children, Women, Families and the Suppression of Human Trafficking.
The Prime Minister commended concerned agencies for the program and observed the operation of the websites. He also emphasized that the Government has placed great importance on protection of personal data and privacy rights, as the Personal Data Protection Act (PDPA) has now come into full effect. The public is urged to use their phone wisely and carefully, while concerned agencies must strictly enforce the law on these issues.
The websites: www.help.ticac.org and www.คลิปหลุดทำไง.com will be the channels for filing grievances, whistleblowing, and providing advices to parents and children on child sexual abuse and online sex trafficking, as well as crimes against children, which should eventually lead to suppression and arrest of the culprits.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/58167