รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM emphasizes “moderation for sustainable and balanced” at 2021 APEC CEO Summit


วันศุกร์ที่ 12 พฤศจิกายน 2564
พิมพ์
PM emphasizes “moderation for sustainable and balanced” at 2021 APEC CEO Summit
PM emphasizes “moderation for sustainable and balanced” at 2021 APEC CEO Summit
November 12, 2021, at 0706hrs (Thailand)/1306hrs (New Zealand), in Auckland, New Zealand, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha delivered a keynote speech at the APEC CEO Summit via a teleconference under the theme “Thailand’s Priorities for APEC 2022”. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist as follows:
The Prime Minister congratulated New Zealand APEC Business Advisory Council (ABAC) for the success of the meeting. The year 2021 has been another challenging year due to the COVID-19 pandemic which continues to pose serious impact. However, the 2021 APEC, hosted by New Zealand and in the spirit of cooperation, has proven that APEC can stand up to challenges through public health rehabilitation, border reopening, and economic recovery, all for the better livelihood of the people, the world we live in, and shared prosperity. An example of APEC's success is its collective effort to increase access to vaccines, and to facilitate transport of vaccines and medical supplies. In this regard, the Prime Minister thanked the private sector for their support.
According to the Prime Minister, this time is an opportunity to shift our attitude towards “moderation”, creating a sustainable and balanced post-COVID-19 future. Thailand has adopted the Bio-Circular-Green Economic Model (BCG) as part of the national strategy for post-COVID 19 economic recoveries. The BCG Economy Model will also be the driving force of the APEC 2022 priorities, to be hosted by Thailand.
In addition, Thailand strives to take forward APEC’s previous achievements and translate the Putrajaya Vision 2040 into concrete actions through: 1) trade and investment, 2) digital and innovation, and 3) sustainability and engagement. The success in delivering the Implementation Plan to translate the Putrajaya Vision 2040 into concrete actions is due, in no small part, to the able leadership of New Zealand.
For the year 2022, Thailand commits to make sure that APEC is “opened” to all opportunities, “connected” in every dimension, and “balanced” in all aspects. Priorities set under the country’s APEC chairmanship will be relevant with APEC’s existing goals and operations, and will be presented in a new paradigm:
First is facilitating trade and investment in a conducive ecosystem to promote multilateral trading system and regional economic integration, drive the establishment of a new Free Trade Area of the Asia-Pacific (FTAAP) in the context of post-COVID-19, and to respond to new trade-related issues, such as the climate change, public healthcare, and inclusive development. Digital technology and innovation will be key tools for driving and realizing these priorities.
Second is rebooting regional connectivity, particularly in the travel and tourism industry. Thailand places priority on rebooting safe and seamless cross-border travel. The country has been reopened to travelers arriving by air from 63 countries and territory, including APEC member economies, since November 1, 2021. Connectivity is key priority the country would like to put forward, and will consider ABAC’s suggestion to set up a working group on safe travel in a bid to reboot regional connectivity.
Third is advancing sustainable and inclusive growth. Thailand commits to promoting APEC’s sustainable and inclusive economic growth. The collective voice from the COP26 Summit last week has revalidated the fact that we need to reaffirm our commitment to sustainable growth and climate positive. Thailand commits to utilize the Bio-, Circular-, and Green (BCG) Economy Model to advance long-term resilient economic growth in tandem with ensuring environmental sustainability in a comprehensive manner.
In closing, the Prime Minister affirmed that Thailand would continue the work of APEC, and provide new perspectives on other relevant issues, especially in the context of the post-COVID-19 world.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/48124