รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand sets goal to become regional EV manufacturing base


วันพุธที่ 29 มิถุนายน 2565
Thailand sets goal to become regional EV manufacturing base
Thailand sets goal to become regional EV manufacturing base
June 28, 2022, at 1430hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Mr. Young Liu, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of Foxconn Technology Group, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure to meet with Foxconn chairman once again after their first meeting at the signing ceremony of an MOU between PTT Public Company Limited and Foxconn Technology Group on EV Development and Manufacturing project in Thailand in May 2021, which has led to the establishment of a joint venture company “HORIZON PLUS”. He thanked FOXCONN for choosing Thailand as its regional EV manufacturing base, and commended expertise and experiences of the company and its executives in smart grid and smart electronics, which would support the development of EV industry in Thailand.
Chairman and CEO of Foxconn was pleased to be back in Thailand, and expressed his confidence on the country’s potential and capacity. Foxconn’s partnership with PTT would help advance Thai EV market and promote EV industry as a driving force of national economic growth. Foxconn stands ready to seek comprehensive cooperation with Thailand in other areas throughout the production chain, both in manufacturing and software innovation, which is in line with the change in global vehicle technology trend.
Both parties also discussed possible cooperation to promote Thailand as manufacturing hub for Mobility-In-Harmony platform, which is environmentally friendly, and would contribute to the economic growth and international competitiveness, as well as an increase of employment. The chairman of Foxconn commended Thailand’s Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC), on which the Prime Minister stated that EEC is a key driver to the leap development of Thai economy. EEC also generates overall socio-economic benefits at the regional level, especially in semiconductor industry. Foxconn chairman affirmed his pleasure to cooperate with the Thai Government and local entrepreneurs to push forward Thailand as ASEAN’s modern vehicle manufacturing hub.
The Prime Minister also affirmed the Thai Government’s equal treatment and support provided to all investors, and that the Government would put utmost effort to facilitate their investment and business operation in Thailand.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/56299