รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM pleased with launching of Saudia Airlines’ first direct flight to Thailand


วันจันทร์ที่ 21 กุมภาพันธ์ 2565
พิมพ์
​PM pleased with launching of Saudia Airlines’ first direct flight to Thailand
​PM pleased with launching of Saudia Airlines’ first direct flight to Thailand
February 21, 2022, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha is pleased with the launching of Saudia Airlines’ first direct flight to Thailand on February 28, 2022, which demonstrates tangible progress on tourism cooperation promotion between Thailand and Saudi Arabia.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Prime Minister’s historic visit to Saudi Arabia on January 25, 2022 has engendered numerous cooperation opportunities between the two countries, both in trade, investment, labor, and tourism. The launching of Saudia Airlines’ first direct flight to Thailand also underscores success of the Prime Minister’s policy and his leadership to instruct concerned ministers and agencies to immediately set up consultative mechanisms for consolidating bilateral cooperation.
The Government Spokesperson added that on February 26-27, 2022, Ministry of Foreign Affairs will lead the delegation of Thai Chamber of Commerce and the Federation of Thai Industries to Saudi Arabia, while Ministry of Tourism and Sports also plans to bring the entrepreneurs in tourism industry to the country at the end of March to promote Thai tourism and services, in hope to attract 200,000 Saudi tourists to Thailand this year which could generate approx. 20 billion Baht in revenues.
Ministry of Tourism is also developing an MOU on tourism cooperation to be countersigned by Saudi Arabian Ministry of Tourism. This is with an aim to promote two-way tourist markets through promoting post-pilgrimage tourism in Saudi Arabia, and extending stay for Thai Umrah and Hajj visa recipients. The MOU has now been sent to the Saudi counterpart for consideration.
The launching of Saudia Airlines’ first direct flight to Thailand not only paves way for further reinforcement of relations and cooperation between the two countries, but also builds upon Thai tourism. Saudi tourists are high potential group of tourists, and are the Thai Government’s target under ‘Medical Hub’ and ‘Thailand Wellness’ tourism policy for sustainable growth and revenue earning of the Thai tourism sector.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/51754