รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Thailand- Slovak Republic agrees to promote water and waste management cooperation


วันศุกร์ที่ 11 กุมภาพันธ์ 2565
พิมพ์
​Thailand- Slovak Republic agrees to promote water and waste management cooperation
​Thailand- Slovak Republic agrees to promote water and waste management cooperation
February 10, 2022, at 13.30 hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Jaroslav Auxt, Ambassador of the Slovak Republic to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his assumption of the position. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed the Slovak Ambassador to Thailand, and congratulated cordial relations between the two countries that have spanned for over 40 years. He affirmed the Thai Government’s full support to the Ambassador’s mission in Thailand, and its readiness to further forge close cooperation in the fields of mutual interest, both at the bilateral and multilateral levels.
The Slovak Ambassador expressed appreciation for the meeting today, which would be a good opportunity to discuss key benefiting issues, especially trade and investment cooperation. Cooperation on water management, and waste management, on which Slovak Republic has expertise, would also be relevant with Thailand’s BCG economic model, and benefit post-COVID-19 sustainable development endeavor of the two countries.
Both parties also came to terms that Thailand and the Slovak Republic have more potential and opportunities to expand mutual trade and investment, on which the Prime Minister would like to see the balance between trade volume and value. He also extended an invitation to Slovak investors to invest in the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC), and make use of Thailand’s strategic location as their manufacturing base and distribution hub in the ASEAN region. The Prime Minister and Slovak Ambassador agreed to restore the Joint High-Level Commission on Economic Co-operation (JEC) to pave way for economic cooperation expansion, and endorse Thailand-EU FTA negotiation which would also benefit cooperation between Thailand and the Slovak Republic at both bilateral and multilateral levels.
The Prime Minister and Slovak Ambassador also discussed the Myanmar situation. The Ambassador commended the Thai Government’s humanitarian and public health assistance provided to Myanmar and its people, and expressed confidence that Thailand and ASEAN would play an important role in bettering the Myanmar situation.
The Slovak Ambassador also congratulated Thailand’s hosting of the APEC Summit this year, and affirmed his country’s full support. The Prime Minister also expressed confidence that Thailand’s hosting of the APEC Summit under theme “Open. Connect. Balance.” would not only contribute to ASEAN-EU connectivity, but also the bilateral cooperation between Thailand and Republic of Slovak.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/51460