รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM’s statement at 4th Asia – Pacific Water Summit


วันเสาร์ที่ 23 เมษายน 2565
พิมพ์
PM’s statement at 4th Asia – Pacific Water Summit
PM’s statement at 4th Asia – Pacific Water Summit
April 23, 2022, at 1318hrs or 1518hrs (Japan local time), in Kumamoto, Japan, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha delivered a statement via a videoconference at the 4th Asia – Pacific Water Summit (4th APWS). Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the Prime Minister’s statement as follows:
The Prime Minister commended Japan’s efforts and highly constructive role on this essential issue of water management, and affirmed Thailand’s fundamental commitment to the agenda of water and sustainable development, and has placed strong emphasis on effective and integrated water resources management for sustainability and balanced development, taking into account the importance of safeguarding water accessibility for all citizens and in particular, not leaving future generations with the burden of deficient water resources. As such, Thailand enacted legislation in the form of the Water Resources Act B.E. 2561 (2018), and a 20 – year Master Plan on Water Resource Management to serve as a guiding framework for water resources solutions and development, which covers the issues of mitigation, climate change adaptation, and disaster risk reduction as identified in the Sendai Framework. As well, Thailand is fully supporting all efforts for achieving the Sustainable Development Goals within 2030, which has included priority budget allocation for efficient and effective infrastructure upgrades.
In addition, during the COVID-19 pandemic, the Royal Thai Government continues to allocate water resources to efficiently meet such needs, but with overarching importance given to ensuring balance in terms of demand and supply, and ensuring clean water access for consumption and sanitation. At the same time, water-related mitigation and adaptation measures, as well as an integrated green infrastructure have been undertaken by Thailand to increase climate change resilience and also minimize possible losses from disaster situations.
According to the Prime Minister, the Royal Thai Government has continuously campaigned for water conservation by using the 3R’s, which are: Reduce, Reuse and Recycle, and has supported the use of local wisdom for area - based water resources management, and the comprehensive implementation of early warning systems to minimize damages caused by water - related disasters. The country also established the River Basin Committee to serve as a muchly needed linking mechanism between policy, planning, and area - based implementation, for maximum efficiency in total water management.
As the host of this year’s Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation or APEC Leaders Meeting, Thailand is promoting the Bio - Circular - Green Economy Model or BCG Model as a socio-economic recovery guideline in the aftermath of the COVID – 19 pandemic. In this aspect, sustainable water management is underscored as a crucial element for economic development based on balance and sustainability, as well as for climate and environmental resilience.
The Prime Minister also commended Japanese initiative and exemplary commitment to water and sustainable development for the development of quality, resilient, and inclusive societies, and expressed belief that the outcomes of the 4th Asia-Pacific Water Summit in Kumamoto will be an important driving force for the Midterm Review of the Water Action Decade 2018 – 2028, as well as for the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals for the sustainability of precious natural resources and the well-being of the peoples.
The 4th APWS is held during April 23-24, 2022 in Kumamoto, Japan, and is attended, both in person and via a videoconference, by national leaders, high-level representatives, and chiefs of international organizations in the Asia-Pacific region. The Theme of the summit is “Water for Sustainable Development – Best Practices and the Next Generation”.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/53848