รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM to attend ASEAN-China Special Summit to Commemorate 30th Anniversary of ASEAN-China Dialogue Relations


วันอาทิตย์ที่ 21 พฤศจิกายน 2564
พิมพ์
PM to attend ASEAN-China Special Summit to Commemorate 30th Anniversary of ASEAN-China Dialogue Relations
PM to attend ASEAN-China Special Summit to Commemorate 30th Anniversary of ASEAN-China Dialogue Relations
Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha is scheduled to attend ASEAN-China Special Summit to Commemorate the 30th Anniversary of ASEAN-China Dialogue Relations via a teleconference on November 22, 2021 (0900hrs) at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House.
The Summit will be co-chaired by His Majesty Sultan Haji Hassanal Bolkiah, Sultan and Yang Di-Pertuan of Brunei Darussalam and President Xi Jinping of People’s Republic of China. The meeting is aimed to congratulate the 30th Anniversary of ASEAN-China Dialogue Relations, and announce the establishment of an ASEAN-China Comprehensive Strategic Partnership. At the meeting, ASEAN and China will also identify future relations direction, and discuss regional and international cooperation.
The Prime Minister will present the vision for ASEAN-China’s shared future which is secure, prosperous, and sustainable, and people-centric without leaving anyone behind. He will also affirm Thailand’s commitment and role to tackle current global challenges and drive sustainable development cooperation through promoting the balance of all things and sustainability in all dimensions, as well as the green growth.
China is ASEAN’s important dialogue partner with high relationship dynamics at all levels. The ASEAN-China relations began in July 1991 in Kuala Lumpur, and China is the first dialogue partner to be elevated as ASEAN’s strategic partner in 2003. Joint Statement of the ASEAN- China Special Summit to Commemorate the 30th Anniversary of ASEAN- China Dialogue Relations will be adopted at the meeting.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/48514