รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Govt Spokesperson affirms abolishment of quarantine requirements from June 1 onward


วันจันทร์ที่ 30 พฤษภาคม 2565
พิมพ์
​Govt Spokesperson affirms abolishment of quarantine requirements from June 1 onward
​Govt Spokesperson affirms abolishment of quarantine requirements from June 1 onward
May 29, 2022, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that Thailand will further relax its traveling measures in line with the recent COVID-19 situation. Starting June 1, 2022, All quarantine requirements will be abolished. Thailand Pass will no longer be required for Thai nationals but remain to be required for all foreign travelers to Thailand.
Fully-vaccinated foreign travelers must submit required documents including passport, certificate of vaccination, and the proof of insurance with at least 10,000 USD coverage for medical treatments in Thailand. For unvaccinated or partially vaccinated foreign travelers, COVID-19 RT-PCR or ATK test result issued within 72 hours before traveling is required. All land border crossing points will also be opened on June 1.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Government, through Center for COVID-19 Situation Administration (CCSA), has earlier lifted “Test & Go” requirement in accordance with the guidance of Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha. The average of incoming travelers in May 2022 has risen to 20,000 people/day, which clearly reflects the recovery trend. Tourism Authority of Thailand (TAT) has forecasted that over 500,000 tourists per month will enter the country from nearby markets during the low season (May- September), and over 1 million per month in the high season (October- December) which will also include such farther markets as Europe and the U.S. With the forecast, the total number of incoming tourists is expected at approx. 7-10 million, generating over 1.5 trillion Baht, or 50% recovery comparing to the year 2019 (pre-COVID-19).

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/55185