รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM delivers remark at Joint Press Conference with Malaysian PM


วันศุกร์ที่ 25 กุมภาพันธ์ 2565
พิมพ์
PM delivers remark at Joint Press Conference with Malaysian PM
PM delivers remark at Joint Press Conference with Malaysian PM
February 25, 2022, at 1815hrs, at the Inner Santi Maitri Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha delivered a remark at the Joint Press Conference with the Honourable Dato’ Sri Ismail Sabri Yaakob, Prime Minister of Malaysia on occasion of the Malaysian Prime Minister’s official visit to Thailand. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed Dato’ Sri Ismail Sabri Yaakob on his official visit to Thailand. The fact that his visit is the very first official visit of a foreign leader to Thailand since the outbreak of COVID-19 underscores the close relations between Thailand and Malaysia as immediate neighbors. He also admired Prime Minister of Malaysia’s leadership and determination in propelling Malaysia forward amidst challenges posed by COVID-19 and regional situation, and reaffirmed his commitment to work closely with the Malaysian Prime Minister to ensure security and prosperity of the peoples, on the basis of trust and respect, as close neighboring countries that may also be described as “members of the same family”. The two Prime Ministers also discussed the following key issues:
1. On Reconnecting the Connectivities: Both parties came to terms on safe cross-border mobility of Thai and Malaysian people through two-way quarantine-free travels between the two countries for fully vaccinated travelers, which Malaysia has appropriately coined as “Vaccinated Travel Lane” (VTL). At present, fully vaccinated travelers from Malaysia can apply to enter Thailand by air without quarantine under Thailand’s “Test & Go” scheme. Thailand is also preparing for the reopening of land borders. The two Prime Ministers also agreed to task relevant agencies to set up a joint working group to further discuss guidelines for cross-border travels to expedite the reopening of borders. They also reaffirmed commitment to expedite pending connectivity projects along the borders, including the construction of the Road Alignment Linking CIQ Sadao – ICQS Bukit Kayu Hitam and the construction of the two new bridges across Golok River in Narathiwat province, to promote trade, investment and tourism.
2. On Reinvigorating the Economy and Explore New Areas of Cooperation: Both parties recognized the importance of uplifting the livelihoods of the peoples, and have been working closely to alleviate the impacts of COVID-19. Despite the COVID-19 pandemic, Thailand and Malaysia managed to facilitate the continuous transportation flow of goods through all nine checkpoints along the common border. As a result, border trade and transit trade volumes have increased and are expected to further expand once the situation improves. The two Prime Ministers also agreed to achieve the bilateral trade target of USD 30 billion with an extended timeframe to 2025 and concurred that the 3rd Meeting of the Joint Trade Committee (JTC) should be convened at the earliest opportunity so that the goal could be achieved. The two Prime Ministers also agreed to explore new areas of cooperation towards sustainable economy, including digital economy and the Bio-Circular-Green (BCG) Economy Model, which can also serve as a model for development among ASEAN member states.
3. On promoting border development in the Southern Border Provinces of Thailand and ensuring border security: The two Prime Ministers exchanged views on promoting economic development to uplift livelihoods of the people in the Southern Border Provinces (SBPs) of Thailand and those in the northern states of Malaysia. The Prime Minister extended an invitation to Malaysian private sector to invest in potential development projects in the SBPs, including in rubber and halal industries. He also took this opportunity to elaborate Thailand’s efforts and policies to address the situation in the Southern Border Provinces, while Prime Minister Ismail reaffirmed Malaysia’s commitment to support Thailand’s efforts in solving the situation through peaceful means including to pursue peace dialogue under the purview of Malaysia as facilitator. Both Prime Ministers affirmed commitment to closely cooperate on strengthening border security, preventing and suppressing transnational crimes and other illegal cross-border activities, along with promoting economic development for the benefits of the two peoples.
4. On Revitalizing the existing bilateral mechanisms: The meeting today has laid the ground for more visits and future exchanges to resume existing bilateral mechanisms and physical meetings, which have been put on hold, so that Thailand-Malaysia cooperation can be driven to achieve tangible results. Thailand stands ready to host the 14th Meeting of the Joint Commission (JC) for Bilateral Cooperation which has already been scheduled for next month. The Thai Prime Minister also hoped that other bilateral meetings on security, economic and social matters, as well as the meetings between Prime Ministers and other Ministers could be resumed and held regularly from now on.
Both Prime Ministers exchanged views on regional and international issues, especially with regard to the role of ASEAN in addressing the situation in Myanmar to ensure ASEAN solidarity amidst opportunities and challenges and in order to maintain a strategic balance in the region. Thailand and Malaysia committed to closely cooperating in the context of ASEAN and APEC. The Prime Minister also expressed appreciation to the Prime Minister of Malaysia for his support to Thailand’s APEC host year.
In closing, the Prime Minister reaffirmed Thailand’s commitment to working closely with Dato’ Sri Ismail and the Government of Malaysia at all levels and all areas for the benefits of the “Thailand -Malaysia Family.”
The Prime Minister of Malaysia’s remark at the Joint Press Conference is relevant with the Thai Prime Minister’s. He hoped to witness close relations between Thailand and Malaysia at all levels, and the expansion of cooperation in new areas of mutual interest. The Malaysian Prime Minister also agreed upon promoting cross-border travels to expedite the reopening of borders, enhancing trade and investment cooperation, and resuming existing bilateral mechanisms and physical meetings. Both parties agreed to publicize the Joint Press Statement to underscore joint political intent for propelling issues discussed to achieve tangible results.
Following the Joint Press Conference, the Prime Minister led the Prime Minister of Malaysia to visit arts and handicraft exhibition at the Central Hall of Santi Maitri Building, before hosting dinner reception in honor of the Malaysian Prime Minister at the Outer Santi Maitri Building.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/51963