รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Govt Spokesperson: Police reform bill now under Parliament’s deliberation


วันอาทิตย์ที่ 29 สิงหาคม 2564
พิมพ์
Govt Spokesperson: Police reform bill now under Parliament’s deliberation
Govt Spokesperson: Police reform bill now under Parliament’s deliberation
August 27, 2021, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha acknowledged the public outcry for police reform, and affirmed the Government’s commitment to undertake reform of the Royal Thai Police in accordance with Section 258 of the Constitution (B.E. 2560) on national reform in justice process. At present, the draft National Police Act, B.E. … is now under the deliberation of the Joint Committee of the Parliament. The Prime Minister emphasizes that strong justice process is a pillar of national administration, and has instructed the Royal Thai Police to implement the urgent phase of reform in 7 aspects, that is, 1) structure of police official positions; 2) human resources management; 3) inquiry system and law enforcement; 4) adoption of technology to support safeguarding work; 5) promotion of public engagement; 6) monitoring of duty performance to ensure transparency; and 7) police welfares.
With regard to the overview of an amendment of the police bill, the cabinet has approved in principle the draft National Police Act (No. …), B.E. …, proposed by National Reform Committee in Justice Process (Police). A scrutiny committee, chaired by Dr. Meechai Ruchapan, was then appointed to scrutinize and draft 2 bills, namely, the National Police Act, B.E. …, and the Criminal Inquiry Act, B.E. …. On January 19, 2021, the cabinet approved the draft National Police Act, B.E. …, which has already been reviewed by Office of the Council of State, and ordered the draft bill to be forwarded to the Parliament. On February 24, 2021, the Joint Committee of the Parliament, in its 4th meeting, has made approval to the principle of the bill, and set up a sub-committee, who has met 11 times so far, to deliberate the draft bill.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the initiative of the Prime Minister to reform the Royal Thai Police demonstrates the Government’s commitment to do so for the best interest of the Thai people. Every person is subject to the law, including law enforcement officials. So, the public can rest assured that police officers who are offenders themselves will also be subject to penalties according to the law.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/45232