รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand and the Netherlands to cooperate on COVID-19 vaccine management and post-COVID-19 rehabilitation


วันเสาร์ที่ 31 กรกฎาคม 2564
พิมพ์
Thailand and the Netherlands to cooperate on COVID-19 vaccine management and post-COVID-19 rehabilitation
Thailand and the Netherlands to cooperate on COVID-19 vaccine management and post-COVID-19 rehabilitation
July 29, 2021, at 1330hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Kees Pieter Rade, Ambassador of Kingdom of the Netherlands to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha cha on occasion of his completion of tenure. Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister commended the Ambassador’s active role in promoting comprehensive cooperation between Thailand and the Netherlands throughout his 3-year tenure, especially in the fields of environment and climate change which has led to the signing of an agreement on water management between the two countries. He also wished the Ambassador a happy retirement, and hoped he could take on a role to promote mutual relations when an opportunity arises.
The Dutch Ambassador was pleased to have been tenured in Thailand, and expressed appreciation toward the Thai Government and Ministry of Foreign Affairs for their support. Long-standing and cordial relations between Thailand and the Netherlands have been forged through regular exchange of visits and close cooperation in various areas. Both countries also commit to expand cooperation in other fields of mutual interests, such as water management technology, climate change, sustainable development and environment.
The Prime Minister and the Dutch Ambassador came to terms to cooperate on COVID-19 vaccine management and post-COVID-19 rehabilitation. They also exchanged views on COVID-19 situation administration and vaccine management, on which the Ambassador expressed confidence over the Thai Government’s administration, and wished for Thailand’s success in curbing the disease. The Netherlands stands ready to cooperate and exchange information on vaccine management with Thailand.
On economic cooperation, the Netherlands has been top European investor in Thailand, especially investment in the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC), whereas Thai investors also make investment in the Netherlands the most among all the EU member countries. The Prime Minister extended an invitation for the Dutch investors to increase their investment in EEC in the fields of their expertise, such as agriculture and biotechnology, logistics, aviation, shipbuilding, and smart electronics. The Ambassador expressed his country’s readiness to cooperate with Thailand on sustainable development and green economy to tackle climate change.
The Ambassador also commended Thailand’s role in the region and ASEAN’s role in the Indo Pacific. Both parties hoped that both Thailand, the Netherlands, and ASEAN forge constructive cooperation for the benefit of all sides.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/44298