รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM pleased with advancement of trade and investment cooperation between Thailand and Saudi Arabia through visit of Riyadh Chamber of Commerce


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 7 กรกฎาคม 2565
พิมพ์
​PM pleased with advancement of trade and investment cooperation between Thailand and Saudi Arabia through visit of Riyadh Chamber of Commerce
​PM pleased with advancement of trade and investment cooperation between Thailand and Saudi Arabia through visit of Riyadh Chamber of Commerce
July 6, 2022, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha was very pleased with the visit of Riyadh Chamber of Commerce delegation, comprising 80 Saudi Arabian businessmen who are interested to explore investment opportunities in Thailand, during July 4-8, 2022. The Prime Minister thanked all concerned agencies for working together to advance relations and tangible cooperation between Thailand and Saudi Arabia, and expressed confidence on potential trade and investment opportunities and channels as Thailand could be a bridge linking the two regions.
The visit of Riyadh Chamber of Commerce delegation came after the Prime Minister’s historic visit to Saudi Arabia early this year. The Saudi businessmen will attend the Thai-Saudi Business Forum and Business Matching, and visit Chulalongkorn University’s Halal Science Center to explore proper Halal products for Saudi market. They will also travel to Phuket to prospect trade, tourism and entertainment business opportunities.
According to the Government Spokesperson, areas of cooperation agreed upon during the Prime Minister’s visit to Saudi Arabia are: 1) tourism, 2) energy, 3) labor, 4) food security, 5) healthcare, 6) security, 7) education and religion, 8) trade and investment, and 9) sports and culture. Target products for trade and investment include products in telecommunications and information technology industry, tourism and entertainment, gold and jewelries, agriculture, medicine, and food. Ministry of Commerce expects that product export value to Saudi Arabia increase by 6.2% in 2022 (an increase from 51.5 billion Baht in 2021).
The visit of Riyadh Chamber of Commerce delegation is a good opportunity to build trade confidence and cooperation between Thailand and Saudi Arabia, and promote Thailand as Saudi Arabia’s trade and investment gateway to the region. The Government Spokesperson added that the Prime Minister instructed concerned agencies to expedite cooperation promotion in the 9 areas to further revive relations between Thailand and Saudi Arabia.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/56673