รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with Bahraini Ambassador to Thailand


วันศุกร์ที่ 30 กรกฎาคม 2564
พิมพ์
PM meets with Bahraini Ambassador to Thailand
PM meets with Bahraini Ambassador to Thailand
July 29, 2021, at 1100hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Ahmed Abdualla Al-Hajeri, Ambassador of the Kingdom of Bahrain to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his completion of tenure. Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister commended the Ambassador’s active role in promoting relations between Thailand and Bahrain, and conveyed his profound appreciation toward Bahrain’s former Prime Minister who was the one to lay foundation to tight-knit relations between the two countries. Thailand commits to continue its support to the incoming Bahraini Ambassador, and thanks Bahrain for taking good care of Thai labors in the country. Bahraini citizens in Thailand will also be well taken care of. He also commended Bahrain for its effective response to COVID-19, and wished the Ambassador success in his future endeavor as the Ambassador of the Kingdom of Bahrain toIndonesia.
The Bahraini Ambassador conveyed to the Prime Minister well wishes from His Royal Highness Prince Salman bin Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa, Crown Prince and the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Bahrain, and expressed appreciation toward the Thai Government and people for the support throughout his tenure in Thailand. Relations between the two countries have been successfully forged through Bahrain’s accession to the Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in Southeast Asia (TAC), establishment of Thai Mart in Bahrain, and Thailand’s endorsement of Bahrain’s chairmanship at the Asia Cooperation Dialogue (ACD), among others.
Both parties also came to terms on promoting bilateral cooperation for mutual interest. The Prime Minister thanked the Bahraini Ambassador for successfully holding 2019 Thailand-Bahrain Mid-year Review meeting to follow up on cooperation progress in various areas, such as public health, trade and investment, food security, energy, and technology, etc.
On public health cooperation, the two parties agreed to continue promoting technical and academic cooperation. Thailand also commits to promote investment of the Thai private sector in Bahrain, especially on rehabilitation centers and healthcare products. With regard to trade and investment, the Prime Minister and the Bahraini Ambassador expressed confidence that the opening of Thai Mart in Bahrain would increase mutual trade value, and that the two countries should take the opportunity, during the COVID-19 pandemic, to work together in eliminating trade and investment barriers in preparation for post-COVID-19 economic rehabilitation. The Prime Minister also proposed BCG (Bio - Circular - Green Economy Model) for sustainable economic rehabilitation.
On tourism, since Thailand is a popular destination for the Bahrainis, the Prime Minister suggested them to travel to the country under the Phuket Sandbox Model, which is implemented under strict public health safety. At the end of the meeting, the Prime Minister thanked Bahrain for continuously supporting Thailand in the Organisation of lslamic Cooperation(OIC). Thailand also commits to continue supporting Bahrain under the ASEAN and other multilateral frameworks.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/44283