รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM joins other APEC leaders to shape collective responses to COVID-19


วันศุกร์ที่ 16 กรกฎาคม 2564
PM joins other APEC leaders to shape collective responses to COVID-19
PM joins other APEC leaders to shape collective responses to COVID-19
July 16, 2021, at 1800hrs, at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defence Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha attended the APEC Informal Leaders’ Retreat, hosted by New Zealand, via a teleconference. The Prime Minister shared visions and discussed with other 20 APEC Economic leaders and representatives on constructive cooperation, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and economic recovery to move through the health crisis. Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister shared visions and discussed with APEC Economic leaders and representatives on constructive cooperation, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and economic recovery to move through the health crisis, including proposed 4 key approaches as follows:
The Prime Minister emphasized equitable access and immediate distribution of safe COVID-19 vaccines for all as the top priority to move through the COVID-19 crisis. Thailand welcomes increased multilateral collaboration and commitments to provide vaccines globally.  With the new variants of COVID-19 being highly transmissible, and the need for a booster shot of vaccines, there is the need to enhance and diversify vaccine production and manufacturing capacities in all regions, including the Asia-Pacific. Thailand’s medical and research teams are researching and domestically developing various types of COVID-19 vaccines, some of which are now at the human trial stage.
Second, risk management is a way forward for us to coexist with the virus in the new normal way, and we must contain them at a manageable level. The country has resumed cross-border movements through the launch of “Phuket Sandbox” scheme and “Samui Plus Model” as part of the effort for economic recovery. In the longer term, Thailand sees the merits of a common travel arrangement and mutual recognition of vaccination certificates, especially for vaccines listed by WHO for emergency use, to facilitate and stimulate international travel and tourism in the region, and urges APEC, as an incubator of ideas, to continue working seriously on this issue to achieve a concrete solution soon.
Third, the Prime Minister emphasized that MSMEs and startups be prioritized as they are the region’s engine of growth but were most severely hit by COVID-19. Tangible initiatives may be implemented. Efforts should also focus on their transition to the new normal, and build flexibility and resilience against future shocks and crises.
Fourth, the Prime Minister emphasized the ‘just right’ and ‘balance’ of human activities and environment. Thailand looks forward to sharing our Bio-Circular-Green (BCG) Economy Model to concretely advance APEC’s works on sustainability and green agenda. The heart of the BCG economy is to keep all economic units in balance to reduce global warming and severe natural disasters.  In this particular issue, the PM urged all APEC economic leaders to cooperate concretely for sustainability.
An outcome document was endorsed at the APEC Informal Leaders’ Retreat to focus on economic and healthcare responses in 3 dimensions: 1) Secured, balanced, inclusive, and sustainable growth: building flexibility of public healthcare system against current and future impacts, implementing economic stimulus measures, especially those that contribute to tackling the climate change; 2) Innovation and digitalization: harnessing innovations that enable people and businesses to emerge stronger; and 3) Trade and investment: promoting trade and investment to enable a strong economic recovery. The World Trade Organization is expected to deliver tangible results that support the recovery from the health and economic crisis.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/43839