รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand and Israel to promote Thai labors’ rights and welfare


วันศุกร์ที่ 25 มิถุนายน 2564
พิมพ์
Thailand and Israel to promote Thai labors’ rights and welfare
Thailand and Israel to promote Thai labors’ rights and welfare
June 24, 2021, at 0930hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Meir Shlomo, Ambassador of State of Israel to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his completion of tenure. Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister thanked the Ambassador for his role in promoting cordial relations between Thailand and Israel, and stated that both countries still have significant potentials for expansion of cooperation in various areas, especially in trade, labor, science and technology, and innovation. He also commended Israel’s effective response to COVID-19 and prompt vaccination process. Thailand also places importance on COVID-19 vaccination.
The Israeli Ambassador expressed appreciation toward the Thai Government for support and facilitation, and committed himself to further promote mutual relations and bilateral cooperation. He also marveled the Prime Minister’s commitment to reopen the country in 120 days, which would be a good opportunity to restrengthen post-COVID-19 cooperation between Thailand and Israel.
Both parties came to terms on expansion of labor cooperation. Israel is considering promoting rights and welfare of the Thai labors in agricultural sector, as well as employers’ benefits. The Ambassador has taken on a key role in pushing forward the new agreement between Thailand and Israel on temporary employment of Thai labors in agricultural sector. On economic affairs, the Prime Minister highlighted trade and investment promotion as key agenda for post-COVID-19 economic rehabilitation. Thailand stands ready to increase mutual trade value, while Israel agreed on the exchange of knowhow and innovations on science, technology, agriculture, agro processing, and water management. On technical cooperation, both parties agreed to forge cooperation through MASHAV, Israel's Agency for International Development Cooperation, to implement various projects in Thailand, such as hydroponic greenhouses in Khon Kaen University and Koh Samui.
The Israeli Ambassador stated that a lot of Israelis expressed interest in the Phuket Sandbox project. The Prime Minister extended an invitation for vaccinated Israeli tourists to visit Phuket, and added that the project will be a model for other Thai tourism places, i.e., Koh Samui, Koh Phangan, Kho Phi Phi, among others.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/43098