รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Thailand-Saudi Arabia to restore full diplomatic ties and open new chapter in relations


วันพุธที่ 26 มกราคม 2565
​Thailand-Saudi Arabia to restore full diplomatic ties and open new chapter in relations
​Thailand-Saudi Arabia to restore full diplomatic ties and open new chapter in relations
January 25, 2022, at 07.00 hrs (Thailand time), Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha, together with Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Don Pramudwinai, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Energy Supattanapong Punmeechaow, and Minister of Labor Suchat Chomklin, left Thailand to pay an official visit to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The Prime Minister and delegation arrived at Riyadh at 11.20 hrs (local time).
At 13.30 hrs (local time), the Prime Minister attended an official welcoming ceremony and was granted an audience with His Royal Highness Prince Mohammad bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, Crown Prince, Deputy Prime Minister, and Minister of Defense of Saudi Arabia, at the Royal Court, Al Yamamah Palace.
Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that the Prime Minister paid the visit to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia upon an invitation of His Royal Highness the Crown Prince of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. This marks the first Government-level visit in more than 30 years. The Prime Minister received a warm welcome that fitted his honor.
Both the Prime Minister and His Royal Highness the Crown Prince of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia affirmed the commitment to resolve all pending issues between Thailand and Saudi Arabia and restore full diplomatic ties. The two sides also stressed the importance of strengthening the two Kingdoms’ bond of friendship and the opening of a new chapter in the relations between the two countries.
According to the Prime Minister, Thailand has placed highest priority in forging friendly relations with Saudi Arabia. He expressed sincere regret over the tragic events in Thailand between 1989 and 1990, and affirmed that the Thai Government and concerned authorities stand ready to bring the cases to consideration should new relevant evidences emerge. Both parties also committed to ensure safety of each other’s citizens in their countries.
The Prime Minister and His Royal Highness the Crown Prince of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia exchanged views on a number of international and regionals issues, and discussed promotion of bilateral relations in all areas. They also came to terms on an increase of interaction and contact between public agencies and the private sector of the other’s country to further elevate bilateral relations for mutual interest.
Under the leadership and vision of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, His Royal Highness the Crown Prince of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand, the two sides agreed to fully restore diplomatic relations. This historic breakthrough is a result of long-term efforts on many levels from both sides to restore mutual trust and friendly relations.
The two sides agreed on important steps to be taken to reinvigorate their bilateral relations, including the appointment of ambassadors to their respective capitals in the near future and the setting up of consultative mechanisms for consolidating their bilateral cooperation. Intensive coordination will commence in the coming months to discuss bilateral cooperation in key strategic areas.
Both parties also discussed means and ways to strengthen and enhance economic and trade relations between the two Kingdoms by exploring investment and other opportunities in the context of Saudi Vision 2030 and Thailand’s national development agenda, namely the Bio – Circular – Green Economy policy, and agreed to explore new areas of cooperation, such as renewable energy, environment, digital transformation, and cybersecurity. Fostering people-to-people relations and promotion of interfaith dialogue and multi-culturalism were also emphasized.
The two sides agreed to support each other in the international organizations and fora and stressed the importance of the commitment of all countries to the Charter of the United Nations, international norms, and principles of good neighborliness, respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty, non-interference in internal affairs, and the peaceful settlement of dispute. They welcomed each other’s constructive roles in their respective regions, particularly Thailand’s vital role in ASEAN as well as Saudi Arabia’s leading role in the maintenance of peace, security and humanitarian and development assistance.
The Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand congratulated Saudi Arabia on its success in hosting and organizing the G20 Summit, which has yielded positive outcomes in many areas. His Royal Highness the Crown Prince of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia also expressed confidence that Thailand’s hosting of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) and the Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC) in 2022 will be successful and greatly contribute to the sustainable, balanced, and inclusive growth of the regional and global economy in the post-COVID-19 era.
The Prime Minister welcomed the Saudi Green Initiative and the Middle East Green Initiative, launched by His Royal Highness the Crown Prince of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and commended the leading role of Saudi Arabia in combatting climate change and its positive impacts for the region and its population. His Royal Highness the Crown Prince of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia also praised Thailand’s Bio – Circular – Green Economy policy, which aims to enhance resource efficiency, transform waste into wealth, regenerate biodiversity, and mitigate impacts on the environment.
At the conclusion of the visit, the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand expressed his appreciation to the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud and His Royal Highness the Crown Prince of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and expressed his best wishes for their good health and for the prosperity and progress of the Saudi people. His Royal Highness the Crown Prince of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia also expressed his best wishes for the good health and well-being of His Majesty King Maha Vajiralongkorn Phra Vajiraklaochaoyuhua and the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand and for the prosperity and progress of the Thai people.
After the meeting, His Royal Highness the Crown Prince of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia hosted a luncheon in honor of the Thai Prime Minister at the Al Yamamah Palace.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/50900