รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand and Sri Lanka aim to increase mutual trade value through economic cooperation


วันอังคารที่ 7 กันยายน 2564
พิมพ์
Thailand and Sri Lanka aim to increase mutual trade value through economic cooperation
Thailand and Sri Lanka aim to increase mutual trade value through economic cooperation
September 6, 2021, at 1330hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mrs. Colonne Appuhamillage Chaminda Inoka Colonne, Ambassador of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of her assumption of the position. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed the Sri Lankan Ambassador to Thailand, and expressed his appreciation on Sri Lanka’s friendship and warm welcome he received during his visit to the country in 2018. Thailand and Sri Lanka have regularly been in touch and forged relations and cooperation, especially in the area of religion and culture. In 2019, the Sri Lankan Government gifted the sapling of Sri Maha Bodhi Tree as a gesture of goodwill to the Thai Government which has now be planted at Wat Vajiradhammaram in Maha Rat district, Ayutthaya province. The Prime Minister also expressed confidence in the Sri Lankan Ambassador’s capability to further strengthen relations and cooperation between the two countries in all areas. The Thai Government stands ready to provide full support to the Ambassador and the Embassy of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka to Thailand.
The Sri Lankan Ambassador expressed honor to be tenured in Thailand, and conveyed well wishes of the Sri Lankan President and Prime Minister to the Thai Prime Minister. She also affirmed her commitment to strengthen Thailand-Sri Lanka relations and cooperation for mutual interest toward tangible outcomes in all dimensions, be it, politics, trade and investment promotion, FTA negotiation, culture and religion, and regional cooperation.
Both parties came to terms that there are more economic potentials between the two countries, and hoped to expedite the FTA negotiation in a bid to increase trade value. The Prime Minister was pleased to learn about Thai investment in Sri Lanka in several areas, and hoped that the Sri Lankan Government would facilitate and take care of the Thai investors in order to attract more investment from Thailand. The Sri Lankan Ambassador would be pleased to discuss with the Office of Board of Investment (BOI) on further trade and investment cooperation in the field of mutual interests.
With regard to the COVID-19 situation, the Thai Government thanked the Sri Lankan counterpart for facilitating the repatriation of Thai citizens, while Thailand stands ready to do the same for the Sri Lankans in the country. The Prime Minister also expressed pleasure to be able to help Sri Lanka in tackling the COVID-19 pandemic by donating medical equipment through the Sri Lankan embassy in Thailand. The Ambassador expressed appreciation on the donation, and extended an invitation for the Prime Minister’s official visit to Sri Lanka after the situation eases.
Both parties also discussed regional cooperation. The Prime Minister congratulated Sri Lanka on its chairmanship of Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC). Thailand is ready to attend BIMSTEC meeting to be held by Sri Lanka around the end of this year, and hopes for Sri Lanka’s endorsement, especially in the aspects of connectivity and seaport cooperation, as it will be handed over the BIMSTEC chairmanship from Sri Lanka next year.
Toward the end of the meeting both parties congratulated technical cooperation between Thailand and Sri Lanka, which covers several areas, especially in agriculture and fishery.
*************************

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/45587