รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​“U2T for BCG and Regional Development” program to be implemented in 7,435 sub-districts throughout the country


วันจันทร์ที่ 20 มิถุนายน 2565
​“U2T for BCG and Regional Development” program to be implemented in 7,435 sub-districts throughout the country
​“U2T for BCG and Regional Development” program to be implemented in 7,435 sub-districts throughout the country
June 20, 2022, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha assigned concerned agencies to expedite their endeavor to promote equitable distribution of revenue and address bread and butter concern in a tangible manner through the implementation of “U2T for BCG and Regional Development” program in 7,435 sub-districts throughout the country.
The “U2T for BCG and Regional Development” program is aimed to allocate quality personnel to each Tambon (sub-district) for local growth and an increase of revenue through the collaboration between over 98 public/private universities and new graduates and local communities. Target groups are new graduates of not over 5 years and local people/laid-off workers, whose basic skills related to the BCG economy will be enhanced. The implementation period is 3 months from July to September 2022. Thailand Community Big Data (TCD) will also be leveraged to ensure sustainable growth and revenue generation of the grassroots economies. Those interested to take part in the program may register at Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Innovation’s website: http://www.u2t.ac.th.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the program will take forward the success of its predecessor, “U2T BCG: University to Tambon” program, implemented in 2021, which has generated over 4.75 times of social return on investment, or approx. 50 billion Baht, from the employment of over 58,000 people and organization of at least 10,088 activities in 3,000 Tambons. The “U2T for BCG and Regional Development” program is now ready to be implemented after an approval made by the cabinet on June 14, 2022.
Under the program more than 15,000 activities, e.g., technology transfer, business matching, marketing management, etc., will be held in 7,435 Tambons throughout the country, while at least 70,000 new graduates and local people will be upskilled/reskilled. The program is expected to help increase sales of local products and services by no less than 10%, and generate over 600 million Baht/month.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Prime Minister has always prioritized the development of grassroots economy and promotion of people’s quality of life. Adoption of the BCG economic model is believed to maximize income generation in a sustainable manner. Aside from creating employments and revenues, the program will feature production and service technology transfer, online/offline market expansion, and standardization of products and services, which will promote sustainable growth of the communities.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/55904