รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with Argentine Ambassador to Thailand


วันจันทร์ที่ 18 ตุลาคม 2564
พิมพ์
PM meets with Argentine Ambassador to Thailand
PM meets with Argentine Ambassador to Thailand
October 18, 2021, at 11.00 hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Mrs. Maria Alicia Cuzzoni de Sonschein, Ambassador of the Republic of Argentina to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of her tenure completion. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister thanked the Argentine Ambassador and commended her active role in strengthening relations between the two countries. Argentina is Thailand’s important friend and trade partner from Latin America and the Caribbean. The two countries have also gorged cordial and long-standing relations and cooperation. The Prime Minister expressed hope that the incoming Argentine Ambassador would continue to work on the reinforcement of cooperation between Thailand and Argentina. He also conveyed his regards to President Alberto Ángel Fernández Pérez of Argentina, and hoped that the two countries push forward cooperation and exchange of visits at all levels once the COVID-19 situation eases.
The Argentine Ambassador expressed honor to have been tenured in Thailand. She commended close relations between the two countries and congratulated the 66th anniversary of the diplomatic relations in 2021. Relations between Thailand and Argentina have had a lot more potential, especially in economic cooperation, human resource development, agriculture and livestock, culture, and Atoms for Peace cooperation. The Argentine Ambassador affirmed her commitment to continue to promote cooperation between the two countries even after her tenure completion for mutual interests.
The Argentine Ambassador also expressed appreciation toward the Thai Government for its cooperation throughout her tenure. She commended the Prime Minister’s policy on the country reopening for economic recovery, especially the success of Phuket Sandbox scheme. The Ambassador personally like traveling to Phuket, and Thailand’s beautiful nature and tourist attractions, as well as the Thai people’s hospitality, has impressed her a great deal.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/47142