รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with Thai community in the U.S.


วันเสาร์ที่ 14 พฤษภาคม 2565
พิมพ์
PM meets with Thai community in the U.S.
PM meets with Thai community in the U.S.
May 12, 2022, at 10.00 hrs (Washington D.C., U.S.A. local time), at the George Washington Room, St. Regis Hotel, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha met with the Thai community in the U.S. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure to have met with Thai people in the U.S., which is the largest Thai population outside Thailand. In this visit, he is accompanied by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Don Pramudwinai, and Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Energy Supattanapong Punmeechaow, and is scheduled to attend the 2nd ASEAN-U.S. Special Summit upon an invitation of U.S. President Joe Biden.
The Prime Minister intends to take the opportunity to promote ASEAN-U.S. cooperation for the interest of all the Thai people. During the visit, he will have a chance to meet with U.S. businessmen to enhance investment opportunity in Thailand, especially businesses that promote sustainable development and adoption of new innovation and technology, which would benefit Thai economy and people through increase of sustainable employment and human capital development. Moreover, this is also a chance to discuss on environment issues which are the government’s priority.
It would also be a good opportunity to communicate with and boost confidence of the U.S. public and private sectors on Thailand’s full-scale country reopening, and the country’s readiness for post-COVID-19 economic recovery in terms of infrastructure and quality personnel. The country’s COVID-19 situation has also continued on the downward trend as a result of the hard work of medical personnel and all concerned sectors, which has brought recognition of the global community on Thailand’s effective response to COVID-19.
The Prime Minister expressed confidence that with the hospitality of the Thai people and the country’s strong soft powers, Thai tourism will soon be reinvigorated. He also hopes that the overseas Thai community act as the country’s cultural ambassadors to promote Thailand’s identities and beauty, as well as friendship and people-to-people relations, which is an extremely important foundation to Thailand-U.S. relations and cooperation.
In 2022, Thailand is tasked with an important mission to host APEC 2022 under the theme “Open. Connect. Balance”, and will have an opportunity to welcome representatives of APEC member economies throughout the year, including national leaders who are scheduled to attend the APEC Summit at the end of 2022. Aside from being honored, This will be a good chance to discuss and seek economic cooperation with other countries, and push forward economic recovery into tangible results.
The Prime Minister also emphasized the Government’s priority to take good care of overseas Thais as he has always attempted to seek a chance to meet with overseas Thai community whenever traveling abroad. He expressed appreciation toward the strength and unity of the Thai community in the U.S., and for giving him moral support, and affirmed his and the Thai Government commit to move forward the country for the best interest of all the Thai people.
****************
The number of Thai residents in the U.S. is recorded at 316,000 people (source: U.S. Census 2020), and is the largest Thai population outside Thailand, most of whom live in the state of California and the western part of the country. There are approx. 21,400 Thais residing in Washington D.C and the nearby states (Maryland and Virginia).

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/54537