รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Japanese private sector expresses appreciation on successful implementation of Factory Sandbox scheme


วันอังคารที่ 8 กุมภาพันธ์ 2565
พิมพ์
Japanese private sector expresses appreciation on successful implementation of Factory Sandbox scheme
Japanese private sector expresses appreciation on successful implementation of Factory Sandbox scheme
February 8, 2022, at 0830hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Minister of Labor Suchart Chomklin led Mr.Tetsu Shiozaki, President of NMB – Minebea Thai Ltd., and the delegation to meet with Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
Minister of Labor reported to the Prime Minister that president and executives of NMB – Minebea Thai Ltd. would like to expressed appreciation on the Government’s policies which have supported the company’s continuous operation in Thailand.
The Prime Minister was pleased to meet with the company’s president and executives, and stated that the Thai Government has placed importance on industrial sector which is crucial to the development of Thai economic sector. During the COVID-19 situation, the “Factory Sandbox” scheme has been implemented to ensure that the industrial sector continue to operate and run their business for the country’s economic recovery. The Government also aims to promote Low carbon society through achieving Carbon Neutrality by 2050 and Net Zero Greenhouse Gas Emission by 2065.
President of NMB – Minebea Thai Ltd. expressed appreciation toward the Thai Government for implementing policies to facilitate foreign private sector’s business operation. Under the Factory Sandbox scheme, not only that all employees have been vaccinated, the company could also operate at full capacity, and constantly export key industrial parts, including medical equipment, from Thailand to various countries around the world.
The company is confident in the Thai Government’s policy and Thailand’s investment potential, with its stable industrial sector, and strong and resilient supply chain. Among the countries the company has invested in, Thailand is the only country where the company does not have to lay off the employees during the COVID-19 situation. MinebeaMitsumi, Inc. has also chosen Thailand as investment base for its new project, worth over 3 billion Baht. The new factory will focus on green manufacturing and aims toward Carbon Neutrality to be in line with Thailand’s BCG economic model and Japan’s Green Growth Strategy. The company is also interested in increasing cooperation with the Thai Government, especially in human resource development.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/51358