รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand and Myanmar to enhance economic cooperation in parallel with border peacekeeping


วันอังคารที่ 23 สิงหาคม 2565
พิมพ์
Thailand and Myanmar to enhance economic cooperation in parallel with border peacekeeping
Thailand and Myanmar to enhance economic cooperation in parallel with border peacekeeping
August 22, 2022, at 1330hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. U Chit Swe, Ambassador of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his assumption of the position. Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed the Myanmar Ambassador to Thailand, and expressed confidence that the Ambassador would be able to take on the role to promote “Natural Strategic Partnership” between the two countries, while the Thai Government stands ready to provide support to the Ambassador. He also expressed intent for Thailand and Myanmar to continue to maintain interaction and cooperation at different levels.
The Myanmar Ambassador expressed pleasure to be tenured in Thailand, and hoped to take forward existing cooperation, as well as development of new cooperation. He commended Thailand’s economic capacity, and extended an invitation for Thai investors to invest in Myanmar in the fields of their expertise.
Both parties also discussed issues of mutual interest:
With regards to border peacekeeping and cross-border issues, the Prime Minister expressed hope for border peace and trade. He thanked Myanmar for its cooperation in addressing various border issues, i.e., narcotics, illegal immigration, human trafficking, and cross-border crimes, especially call center gangs, hybrid scam, and online gambling websites. Myanmar’s assistance provided to the Thai people during the pandemic is also appreciated.
On economic cooperation, both parties came to terms to promote mutual transactions for economic expansion. Myanmar has allowed the use of Baht together with Kyat for the benefit of border trade activities, which is expected to help increase mutual trade value. Thailand calls on the Myanmar Government to take care of Thai investors, and hopes for the country’s speedy economic recovery.
Thailand is also pleased with energy cooperation for mutual benefit of people of the two countries, and thanked Myanmar workers for their contribution to Thailand’s economic development. The workers are also encouraged to enter Thailand legally and properly.
Both parties also discussed the Myanmar situation. The Prime Minister expressed hope for peace and stability to quickly return to the country, while Thailand stands ready to provide humanitarian assistance. The Prime Minister and the Myanmar Ambassador also commended public health cooperation between the two countries through donation of COVID-19 vaccines

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/58325