รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM and ASEAN leaders discuss economic cooperation with American business leaders


วันศุกร์ที่ 13 พฤษภาคม 2565
PM and ASEAN leaders discuss economic cooperation with American business leaders
PM and ASEAN leaders discuss economic cooperation with American business leaders
May 12, 2022, at 1400hrs (Washington D.C., U.S.A. local time), at Willard InterContinental Hotel, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha, together with leaders of ASEAN member countries, met with American business leaders. Also participating in the meeting were U.S. Secretary of Commerce Gina M. Raimondo and United States Trade Representative Katherine Tai.
Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of PM’s statement as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure to meet with American business leaders, and mentioned his previous meetings with representatives of US-ASEAN Business Council. He commended American private sectors for their active engagement and contribution to ASEAN’s economic growth. During the past 2 years, not only the COVID-19 pandemic, but also the international conflicts have badly impacted all sectors. It is, therefore, necessary to review the lessons learned in order to move ahead in a stable manner. Thailand has placed importance on creating “economic driving forces for the future” to promote the region’s strong and sustainable growth in the Next Normal. The Prime Minister took the opportunity to share his thoughts on “3Rs” that ASEAN and the U.S. should further cooperate:
First is “Reconnect”. The U.S. private sector could play an important role to promote supply chain connectivity through expansion of production base in the region, especially in new industries that ASEAN has potential and resources.
Thailand’s Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC) welcomes investment of the U.S. private sector to promote diversity of supply chains, and their use of Thailand as base for business connectivity with other countries in the region through the establishment of regional HQs. Potential industries for cooperation include medical equipment and services industry, smart logistics, and smart electronics.
Thailand is a strong production base for midstream and downstream smart electronics industry with a number of American private firms already putting in their investment. The Prime Minister extended an invitation for American investors to consider more investment in hi-tech products that are important to supply chains, such as semi-conductor upstream, and EVs. The Thai Government has now a policy to promote the country as world-class EV manufacturing base. Investment privileges will be provided to EV manufacturers and related ecosystems, which would also benefit U.S. automotive industry.
Second is “Rebuild”. In the Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR) era, focus should be made on the development and adoption of science, technology and innovation to drive the economies, especially the development of the region’s digital economy which is a key economic driving force that could bring about a USD 1 trillion boost to ASEAN’s GDP by 2030.
The Prime Minister extended an invitation for U.S. private sector to take part in the development of infrastructure in the ASEAN region, e.g., internet network, cloud technology for manufacturing, data center, content provision, and the development and incubation of digital startups. Thailand’s Digital Valley in EECi is ready to welcome the development of American investors in digital businesses.
Third is “Rebalance”. Immediate target of all sectors now is to reinvigorate the society and people’s living. The key is to maintain “balance” between economic growth and environmental protection. The U.S. private sector has great potential to expand investment and transfer knowledge and technology in low-carbon industry and clean energy to the ASEAN region.
As host of the APEC 2022, Thailand strives to promote post-COVID-19 Asia-Pacific that is “opened” to all opportunities, “connected” in every dimension, and “balanced” in all aspects. With the fundamental concept of BCG Economic Model, APEC 2022 will be held under the theme “OPEN. CONNECT. BALANCE.”. Agendas set under Thailand’s APEC chairmanship, which are: 1) facilitating trade and investment; 2) rebooting regional connectivity, particularly in the travel and tourism industry, and 3) advancing sustainable and inclusive growth, will directly benefit the private sector. Thailand, as host of the APEC 2022, stands ready to cooperate with the U.S. to drive forward these agendas toward tangible results.
In closing, the Prime Minister expressed hope that American private sector would endorse the aforementioned agendas. Thailand and other ASEAN member countries commit to support expansion of their business opportunity, minimize trade obstacles, and facilitate their investment in the region in order for both ASEAN and the U.S. to advance together in a stable and sustainable manner. No one was left behind.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/54541