รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-U.S. commends PM for active role in addressing trafficking in person


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 11 สิงหาคม 2565
พิมพ์
U.S. commends PM for active role in addressing trafficking in person
U.S. commends PM for active role in addressing trafficking in person
August 10, 2022, at 100hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Mr. Michael Heath, Chargé d' Affaires a.i. of the U.S. Mission in Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his completion of tenure. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure to meet with the U.S. CDA once again. With the U.S. CDA’s genuine understanding on Thailand and his active role in promoting relations between the two countries, relations and cooperation dynamism has considerably increased in all dimensions. He also hoped that the incoming U.S. CDA would continue to follow suit, and affirmed the Thai Government’s readiness to provide full support.
The U.S. CDA expressed appreciation for the meeting. He congratulated close friendship between Thailand and the U.S., especially in the aspects of economic affairs, public health, education, and people-to-people relations, and commended the Prime Minister’s leadership and policy in responding to the COVID-19 situation, which has enabled the private sector to continue their businesses during the pandemic. He also affirmed expertise and experiences of the incoming U.S. CDA on the region, and expressed confidence that the incoming U.S. CDA would continue to take on the role in promoting relations and cooperation between Thailand and the U.S.
Both parties also discussed issues of mutual interest:
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure over strong trade and investment cooperation, with the U.S. being Thailand’s 3rd largest trade partner. Nevertheless, there are potentials for an increase of cooperation. The Prime Minister was confident that “Thailand-United States Communiqué on Strategic Alliance and Partnership” would help identify joint strategic goals and cooperation directions for mutual interest. The U.S. CDA was also confident that economic cooperation would continue to grow.
With regard to the issue of trafficking in person, the Prime Minister was pleased with an upgrade of Thailand to Tier 2 in the 2022 TIP Report. Thailand commits to preventing and suppressing human trafficking, by announcing it a national agenda. The U.S. CDA commended the Prime Minister’s role in successfully addressing the issue toward tangible result.
On the multilateral cooperation, the Prime Minister was pleased with the U.S. policy to increase its constructive role in the region and sub-regions through both existing and new cooperation mechanisms, such as Mekong-US Partnership, and IPEF. Both parties also exchanged views on the current international situations, on which Thailand has closely followed up, and supports the peaceful resolution of conflict. The U.S. CDA commended Thailand’s continued humanitarian assistance and affirmed his country’s readiness to join with Thailand in playing constructive role in the international situation.
At the end of the meeting, the Prime Minister conveyed his regards and appreciation to President Biden for the warm welcome he received during his visit to the U.S. in May. As Thailand is hosting the APEC Summit in 2022, the Prime Minister very much looked forward to welcoming President Biden in Thailand.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/57927