รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand strives to promote 5 areas of connectivity and 3 visions under BIMSTEC


วันพุธที่ 30 มีนาคม 2565
Thailand strives to promote 5 areas of connectivity and 3 visions under BIMSTEC
Thailand strives to promote 5 areas of connectivity and 3 visions under BIMSTEC
March 30, 2022, at 1035hrs, at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha attended via a teleconference the 5th Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC) Summit and related meetings, hosted by Sri Lanka, where he and leaders of other BIMSTEC member countries, delivered speeches. Deputy Government Spokesperson Traisuree Taisaranakul disclosed gist of the Prime Minister's speech as follows:
The Prime Minister emphasized that BIMSTEC is the only sub-regional framework that links Southeast Asia and South Asia. In the past, cooperation and implementation under the BIMSTEC framework have not seen much progress due to volatility of the global situation. The 5th BIMSTEC Summit is, therefore, important for the review of cooperation and implementation. Thailand's BIMSTEC chairmanship coincides with the country's hosting of APEC 2022, and Thailand commits to promote quality and sustainable development by adopting excellent practices of member countries to fit the need and context of respective cooperation framework.
According to the Prime Minister, today’s meeting is historic since all member countries agreed upon and signed the BIMSTEC Charter and other important documents to demonstrate commitment for tangible cooperation into the future. Thailand is of the view that connectivity promotion is very important as there are plenty of trade and investment potentials among member countries. As a leading country in connectivity, the country strives to promote connectivity in the following areas:
1) Land connectivity: Thailand thanks other members for endorsing the country's proposal on the development of the BIMSTEC Master Plan on Transport Connectivity, and hopes for their cooperation in pushing forward flagship projects under the Master Plan toward tangible achievement.
2) Marine connectivity: The Prime Minister proposed acceleration of the procedure for the signing and realization of BIMSTEC Coastal Shipping Agreement to better connect ports in the Bay of Bengal countries.
3) Energy connectivity: Acceleration of the implementations under Memorandum of Understanding for Establishment of the BIMSTEC Grid Interconnection was also proposed.
4) Digital connectivity: The Prime Minister proposed promotion of digital connectivity through digital infrastructure development projects, and
5) People connectivity: People-to-people interaction is the key to policy implementation balance and sustainability, which will make BIMSTEC everyone’s community with no one being left behind.
The Prime Minister also underscored Thailand's readiness to build upon Sri Lanka's successful chairmanship, and proposed the country's visions under the overarching theme: “Prosperous, Resilient and Robust, and Open BIMSTEC”, aka. PRO BIMSTEC:
First is "Prosperous" (economic dimension). Promoting post-COVID-19 economic recovery, and new, sustainable, and resilient businesses, while enhancing SMEs competitiveness.
Second is"Resilient and Robust" (security dimension). Promoting preparedness against challenges and crisis of all forms, and recovery policies. Thailand stands ready to share knowledge on the BCG economic model which the country adopts as national strategy for post-COVID-19 economic recovery.
Third is"Open" (engagement dimension). Focus is made on people-centric engagement of all sectors. Thailand has planned to develop the BIMSTEC Knowledge Platform, accessible to the public, in order to create awareness on the importance of BIMSTEC cooperation framework. The Prime Minister also committed to promote quality, sustainable, and environmental-friendly tourism among BIMSTEC member countries.
The Prime Minister also reaffirmed Thailand's commitment to propel BIMSTEC in all dimensions. Thailand's approach for BIMSTEC chairmanship will be relevant with the "PRO BIMSTEC" concept to engender inclusive, balanced, and sustainable development.
At the end of the meeting, the Prime Minister joined other BIMSTEC leaders to sign the BIMSTEC Charter. BIMSTEC will become an inter-governmental organization once the Charter is signed and ratified by all member countries.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/53110