รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM following up on vaccinating children, while the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health will start vaccinating the first dose for children


วันจันทร์ที่ 31 มกราคม 2565
​PM following up on vaccinating children, while the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health will start vaccinating the first dose for children
​PM following up on vaccinating children, while the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health will start vaccinating the first dose for children 5 years old and under 12 years old on February 1, 2022.
January 30, 2022, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha has followed up the situation of the pandemic in Thailand. He was delighted with the improvement of coping with the spread of the COVID-19, as the government measures are also praised by foreign countries. Also, the proportion of vaccination of the population is increasing. Now, Thailand is ready to vaccinate Pfizer for children aged 5 years and under 12 years. The first lot has already arrived to Thailand on January 26, 2022. The Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Public Health will provide Pfizer vaccination services to children aged 5 years, under 12 years, or 11 years and 11 months with 29 days. It is expected that the first vaccination will begin on February 1, 2022, and the second dose will be rolled out from February 26, 2022 onwards.
The government spokesman also added that Prime Minister was concerned about students and children. Therefore, he encouraged the pandemic control enforcement in educational institutions, where will be the group activities, such as organizing sports competitions, seminars, and having meals together in the same way as other cluster parties. Besides, he urged all educational institutions to comply with Covid-19 Free education measures, consisting of 5 main measures, 6 supplementary measures, and 7 strict measures. The 5 main measures are social distancing, wearing a mask, fever screening, congestion reduction, and cleaning. The 6 additional measures are self-care, use of personal serving spoons, eating freshly cooked food, entry, and exit registration, doing survey and questionnaire, and self-quarantine. The 7 strict measures are using Thai Stop Covid Plus and reporting results continuously, Small bubble activities, including preparing an incident response plan and rehearsing to cope with the situation. In the event that an infected person is found, a School Isolation system and travel supervision system or a Seal Route can be arranged and take care of student to make school a safe space for students, teachers and all school personnel.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/51096