รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM delivers keynote address at opening of Hainan Expo 2022


วันอังคารที่ 26 กรกฎาคม 2565
พิมพ์
PM delivers keynote address at opening of Hainan Expo 2022
PM delivers keynote address at opening of Hainan Expo 2022
July 25, 2022, at 1025hrs (UTC+07:00) or 1125hrs (China), at Haikou, Hainan, People’s Republic of China, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha delivered a keynote address via a teleconference at the opening of the 2nd China International Consumer Products Expo 2022 (Hainan Expo 2022) and the 1st Global Consumption Forum.
Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of his address as follows:
The Prime Minister thanked the Chinese Government for inviting him to deliver the keynote address, which demonstrates the growing economic relations and cooperation between Thailand and China. He also expressed appreciation for the welcome the Chinese Government extended to HRH Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn, on HRH’s visit to China to attend the opening ceremony of Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics and Paralympics, which fitted the royal honor.
Thailand has been keen to promote cooperation with China’s various provinces, including Hainan, in both economic, trade, tourism, and agricultural dimensions. It was his pleasure that Thailand be part of the Hainan Expo 2022 and Global Consumption Forum. The Prime Minister hoped that Thai products would become more known to the Chinese, and that Thailand and Hainan take the opportunity to increase mutual trade and investment and promote other areas of cooperation.
He also congratulated the development of port economy, through the Hainan Free Trade Port, which is reflected by significant economic growth and an increase of investment between Hainan province and other countries. The Prime Minister expressed confidence that the Hainan Expo 2022 and Global Consumption Forum would contribute to an increase of trade and investment between China and RCEP member states. The Hainan Free Trade Port will also be the “Bridge for Trade and Investment” that links China with ASEAN and other regions under President Xi Jinping’s Belt and Road Initiative.
The concept of Hainan Free Trade Port is relevant with economic cooperation under the APEC framework, which promotes trade and investment facilitation, connectivity rehabilitation, and inclusive and sustainable growth. The APEC 2022 is hosted by Thailand with the overarching theme of “Open. Connect. Balance.”
In closing, the Prime Minister wished for the success of the event, and affirmed Thailand’s readiness to strengthen cooperation with Hainan province and the Chinese Government toward “comprehensive strategic partnership” for the benefit of the two countries, the region, and global community.
The China International Consumer Products Expo (Hainan Expo) is organized by China’s Ministry of Commerce, in collaboration with Hainan’s local government, during July 26-30, 2022 under the theme: “Share Open Opportunities, Co-create a Better Life”.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/57252