รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand takes up BIMSTEC Chairmanship and commits to advance BIMSTEC cooperation toward prosperity, resilience and robustness, and openness


วันพุธที่ 30 มีนาคม 2565
Thailand takes up BIMSTEC Chairmanship and commits to advance BIMSTEC cooperation toward prosperity, resilience and robustness, and openness
Thailand takes up BIMSTEC Chairmanship and commits to advance BIMSTEC cooperation toward prosperity, resilience and robustness, and openness
March 30, 2022, at 1250hrs, at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House, following the 5th Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC) Summit, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha, together with leaders and representatives of BIMSTEC member countries, attended the handover ceremony of BIMSTEC chairmanship. Deputy Government Spokesperson Traisuree Taisaranakul disclosed gist of the Prime Minister’s speech as follows:
The Prime Minister congratulated Sri Lanka for its successful chairmanship amidst various challenges, and expressed Thailand’s pleasure to take over the BIMSTEC chairmanship. During the 2-year chairmanship, Thailand strives to build upon Sri Lanka’s success, and propel BIMSTEC toward:
1. "Prosperity": Thailand commits to lead BIMSTEC toward prosperity and post-COVID-19 economic recovery through multilateral cooperation frameworks, connectivity, and adoption of innovation and technology.
2. "Resilience and Robustness": Mutual support among member countries will be promoted to cope with various challenges. Importance will be placed on recovery policies and use of digital technology to create sustainable and balanced future.
3. “Openness”: Thailand has placed importance on human capital, and strives to promote constructive participation of all sectors and their awareness on opportunities.
The Prime Minister emphasized that Thailand stands ready to share knowledge on the BCG economic model which the country adopts as national strategy for post-COVID-19 economic recovery, and expressed hope that BIMSTEC would become stronger in the next two years against challenges of all forms. Thailand’s determination as the next BIMSTEC Chair reflects in the Chairmanship logo and video presentation. The Golden Ears of Rice (Ruang Kao See Tong) and blue waves symbolize BIMSTEC as the world's food security sources and the connectivity of our region through maritime routes in the Bay of Bengal and the Indian Ocean. The curves of the rice and waves along the edge of the logo illustrate prosperity in collective endeavoring, and also present the resilience and unity of all Member States as a stakeholder that helps perpetuate BIMSTEC forward towards a “Prosperous, Resilient, and Open BIMSTEC for all.
At the 5th BIMSTEC Summit, the following 6 important documents have been signed and adopted:
Signed
1. BIMSTEC Charter
2. BIMSTEC Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters
3. Memorandum of Association on the Establishment of BIMSTEC Technology Transfer Facility (TTF)
4. Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on Mutual Cooperation between Diplomatic Academies/Training Institutions of BIMSTEC Member States
Adopted
5. BIMSTEC Master Plan on Transport Connectivity
6. The 5th Summit Declaration

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/53112