รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM advised Phattalung local administrations to utilize mechanisms at all levels to propel implementations toward targets


วันอังคารที่ 26 เมษายน 2565
พิมพ์
PM advised Phattalung local administrations to utilize mechanisms at all levels to propel implementations toward targets
PM advised Phattalung local administrations to utilize mechanisms at all levels to propel implementations toward targets
April 25, 2022, at 1545hrs, at the Provincial Hall, Phatthalung provinces, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha presided over the meeting to hand down policies to chiefs and executives of local administrations. Also attending the meeting were Minister of Tourism and Sports Phiphat Ratchakitprakarn, Minister of Labor Suchart Chomklin, Phatthalung Governor Kookiat Wongkraphan, and representatives from concerned agencies. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister thanked Phatthalung governor, chiefs, executives, and members of local administrations, as well as the province’s public officials and staffs to gather here today for the sake of Phatthalung people. The province, as well as other Southern provinces, boasts diversified potentials, abundant resources, and unique identities which could be systematically linked and capitalized to upgrade local supply chain in agriculture, water management, tourism, etc., for the increase of revenues.
The Prime Minister added that as a result of Thai people’s cooperation in strictly complying with public health measures, the international community has recognized Thailand as one of the countries which has provided the most effective response to COVID-19. Nonetheless, the Government continues to implement various measures to mitigate the plights of people of all sectors in a bid to sustain business operations and the lives of low-income earners, and to move forward grassroots economy.
According to the Prime Minister, the country needs to be prepared for the entering of aging society next year. Labors must be upskilled to keep up with the national development, global changes, and new technologies. The country’s soft power, e.g., music, culture, food, sports, etc., and natural resources should be capitalized to generate income and balances.
Thailand is considered hub of the ASEAN region, and has attracted foreign visitors and investment. The Government has also set the policies to forge cordial relations with foreign nations and enhance national competitiveness, taking into account benefits of the country. Following the decision of Center for COVID-19 Situation Administration (CCSA) to drop the requirement for RT-PCR test and the Test and Go scheme for fully vaccinated travelers from May 1st, 2022 onward, the number of incoming tourists is expected to increase considerably. Provincial administration is advised to assess capacity and preparedness to ensure balances between economic and public health for tourism sustainability. Phatthalung has sufficient resources, especially in terms of beautiful nature, and “Nora” folk dance which has been given UNESCO heritage status. So, the province could build upon these resources to enhance community awareness and learning, and promote “Brand Phattalung” to further attract tourists.
The Prime Minister also emphasized the importance to utilize mechanisms at every level to propel all implementations toward the targets. Integrative operation should be promoted to solve poverty and disparity at the local level for utmost interest of the people. The Prime Minister also commended and gave moral support to all sectors, especially local operation taskforces and volunteers who have worked to the full ability to solve major problems and help out the people. Although the COVID-19 pandemic may have caused great damages in various aspects, it has shown true characteristics of Thai people, be it, unity, considerateness, and kindness. According to the Prime Minister, the crisis lies an opportunity. It has given the lesson of resilience and prepared us for another step forward. He also urged members of Phatthalung local administrations to join forces in creating the people’s happiness and smiles.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/53939