รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM’s clarification on budget expenditure during censure debate


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 2 กันยายน 2564
PM’s clarification on budget expenditure during censure debate
PM’s clarification on budget expenditure during censure debate
August 31, 2021, at 1348hrs, at the censure debate against individual ministers held during the 1st annual ordinary session (3rd Year) of the House of Representatives, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha has made clarification regarding budgeting and budget expenditure. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist as follows:
According to the Prime Minister, the budget has been prepared as the deficit budget. The central budget appropriation may be increased, but still within the budget framework. The increased central budget has been used to mobilize economic growth, boost domestic spending and investment, as well as foreign investment, and to assist the vulnerability groups. All disbursements are made in accordance with the regulations of the Budget Bureau, and are accountable. Ministry of Defense budget accounts for 7.2% of the total budget. Thailand’s military budget per GDP is relatively low compared to that of many ASEAN countries. Arms procurement is aimed to replace old ones that can no longer be repaired, to maintain safety of military officers who have been deployed along the border areas, and support their missions as assigned, such as taking care of COVID-19 patients and migrant workers along the border areas, providing relief to disaster-affected victims, etc.
The Prime Minister emphasized that Thailand’s financial status is still stable, as the country’s financial system stability, rated by the World Bank and IMF, remains at BBB+. The Government’s debts are all good and performing debts, and are used for infrastructure development and basic utility investment to generate future revenues for the people. All expenses and loans are undertaken only when necessary. Budget allocated for the implementation of COVID-19 related measures has benefited over 30-40 million people, especially the low-income earners and SMEs. As for the allegation related to cronyism and kickbacks, the Prime Minister called for further information and proof, related to which the Government would be opened for scrutiny and fact checking.
The Prime Minister also clarified about his earlier working from home for 14 days that it was under the order of his doctor after a close aide was found to be infected with the COVID-19 virus. Nevertheless, working from home did not mar him from performing duties. With regard to the recent protests, he affirmed that the Government has never made any order for law enforcement officials to use real weapons against the people.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/45429