รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with president of JETRO in Bangkok


วันพุธที่ 22 มิถุนายน 2565
PM meets with president of JETRO in Bangkok
PM meets with president of JETRO in Bangkok
June 21, 2022, at 1430hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Mr. TAKETANI Atsushi, president of the Japan External Trade Organization (JETRO) in Bangkok, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha to bid goodbye on occasion of his completion of tenure.
Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister commended close and cordial relations between Thailand and Japan, especially through continuous exchange of high-level visits, as prime ministers of the two countries met on various occasions in May 2022. He also marveled private sector of the two countries, including JETRO Bangkok, for their active role in advancing economic cooperation between the two countries, and thanked the JETRO Bangkok president for his commitment to promote economic cooperation between the public and private sectors of both countries throughout the three years of his tenure.
Thailand stands ready to continue supporting the incoming JETRO Bangkok president.
The president of JETRO Bangkok expressed appreciation toward the Prime Minister for his continuous support, and commended the Thai Government for effectively administer the COVID-19 situation, which has boosted confidence of the Japanese private sector. He also thanked the Prime Minister for endorsing various bilateral dialogues between Thailand and Japan.
The official visit of the Japanese Prime Minister to Thailand in May reflects the country’s priority given to Thailand. President of JETRO Bangkok also affirmed the commitment of the organization and the incoming president to continue to promote relations and cooperation between the two countries.
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure that Japan is top investor country and ranks 2nd as Thailand’s trade partner. This demonstrates the confidence Japanese investors have on the Thailand’s economic potentials. He also congratulated and supported Thailand and Japan’s new areas of cooperation, which would contribute to the strengthening of supply chain.
The president of JETRO Bangkok disclosed that Japanese private sector is keen in investing in infrastructure projects and high-speed railway, on which the Prime Minister would order concerned agencies to follow up. Since the Thai Government has also placed importance on the development of human capital to support Japan’s investment in Thailand’s targeted industries, the Prime Minister discussed with JETRO Bangkok president on an expansion of KOSEN Institute in Thailand. This is also in order for the country to become the region’s human capital development hub.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/56004