รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM follows up on implementation of TPMAP in Sakon Nakhon province


วันศุกร์ที่ 17 มิถุนายน 2565
พิมพ์
PM follows up on implementation of TPMAP in Sakon Nakhon province
PM follows up on implementation of TPMAP in Sakon Nakhon province
June 15, 2022, at 0930hrs, at Phra Ajarn Fan Arjaro Hospital, Panna Nikhom district, Sakon Nakhon province, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha, together with Minister of Interior Gen. Anupong Paojinda, Minister of Digital Economy and Society Chaiwut Thanakamanusorn, Minister of Labor Suchart Chomklin, and the delegation, followed up on the use of “Thai People Map and Analytics Platform (TPMAP)”, a data analytics tool aiming at precision poverty alleviation and improving quality of life for Thai citizens, and the implementation progress to promote Thailand as “herbal hub”. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed the Prime Minister’s missions as follows:
With regard to the province’s endeavor to eradicate poverty and develop people of all ages, in the year 2022 approx. population of Sakon Nakhon is 1.14 million, out of whom target population under TPMAP accounts for 12,261 people, a decline in number comparing to 2018 (22,922 people). This demonstrates successful mobilization of the policy to reduce the number of TPMAP-targeted population.
Sakon Nakhon is also one of the four pilot provinces (Prachin Buri, Surat Thani, Sakon Nakhon, and Chiang Rai) to be promoted as the “Herbal City”, with Phra Ajarn Fan Arjaro Hospital as provincial center for traditional medical treatment and applied Thai traditional medicine. One-stop herbal hub and Thai traditional medicine has been promoted through the purchase of herbal raw materials from local farmers, and production of innovative healthcare products according to the international standard under brand “Arjaro Herb”. As a result, farmers’ revenues have remarkably increased and more employments have been created.
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure to visit Sakon Nakhon once again, and affirmed the Government’s commitment to promote the province’s potential as an herbal metropolis. The Government also strives to propel national development in accordance with the Sufficiency Economy Philosophy (SEP) to eliminate poverty, and promote people’s sustainable safety and immunity. Budget will be allocated according to policy priorities to all the 77 provinces. On the COVID-19 situation, the Government has put utmost effort to address the problem until Thailand is recognized as one of the countries which has provided the most effective response to COVID-19. However, although the situation has improved, it is important that everyone keep their guard high, and receive full vaccination.
The Prime Minister also expressed concern on the use of herbs, especially the recently-decriminalized cannabis, and stated that it is very important to educate the public on the pros and cons, and proper usage of cannabis. Processed herbs for medical use have to be well controlled and standardized.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/55801