รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with Vietnamese Vice President


วันอังคารที่ 28 มิถุนายน 2565
พิมพ์
PM meets with Vietnamese Vice President
PM meets with Vietnamese Vice President
June 24, 2022, at 1300hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mrs. Vo Thi Anh Xuan, Vice President of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of her visit to Thailand to attend the 2022 Global Summit of Women. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed Vietnamese Vice President in her first visit to Thailand, and commended her for the active role in putting forward the issues of women, youths, and the vulnerabilities, as well as the development of grassroots economy. He also conveyed his regards to President Nguyễn Xuân Phúc and Prime Minister Phạm Minh Chính of Vietnam, whom he met in several occasions and are good friends.
The Vietnamese Vice President expressed pleasure to have visited Thailand and met with the Prime Minister. She also marveled the prime minister’s keynote address at the 2022 Global Summit of Women, and commended the Thai government for placing great importance on women empowerment. Thailand and Vietnam have been forging close collaborations as strong strategic partners. Vietnam endorses regular exchange of high-level visits and dialogues, especially under the framework of the Joint Cabinet Retreat, to advanced cooperation in a tangible manner.
Both the Prime Minister and the Vietnamese Vice President agreed on increasing cooperation in trade and investment, and supply chain connectivity of supporting industries for post-COVID-19 economic recovery. The Prime Minister was of the view that both countries expedite minimization of trade obstacles with an aim to increase mutual trade value to US$25 billion within 2025. He also thanked the Vietnamese Government for providing support to Thai investors, especially in energy investment. He also called for the two countries to facilitate border trade activities onto the 3rd countries through reducing red tape at the border crossing points for agro products. The Vietnamese Vice President affirmed Vietnam’s commitment to support Thai investors, and promote economic cooperation and agro product trade. In her visit this time, she was accompanied by a group of Vietnamese businessmen who have met with the Thai counterparts, led by Thai Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs. Their meeting is expected to lead to more trade and investment activities between private sector of the two countries.
The Prime Minister and Vietnamese Vice President also came to terms on promoting local cooperation. Thailand and Vietnam have long forged close cooperation at the people-to-people level, especially through over 100,000 Vietnamese Thais in the country. The Vietnamese President agreed with the Prime Minister to promote local cooperation in a tangible manner, as well as to conserve and promote Vietnam-related historical sites in Thailand as tourist attractions.
At the end of the meeting, both the Prime Minister and the Vietnamese Vice President, constructively discussed regional and international situations under the ASEAN and UN
frameworks. They came to terms that both bilateral and multilateral relations and cooperation between Thailand and Vietnam continue to be driven forward to promote prosperity, peace, and stability of Thailand and Vietnam, and the ASEAN region as a whole.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/56221