รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM orders tightening of COVID-19 preventive measures in public transportation system during New Year Holidays


วันอังคารที่ 28 ธันวาคม 2564
พิมพ์
PM orders tightening of COVID-19 preventive measures in public transportation system during New Year Holidays
PM orders tightening of COVID-19 preventive measures in public transportation system during New Year Holidays
December 27, 2021, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha is concerned over people’s traveling during the Holidays, as a remarkable increase of cross-provincial/regional traveling is expected in the last week of the year. He has instructed Ministry of Public Health to liaise with Ministry of Transport, and the Transport Co., Ltd. to come up with the measures to accommodate a large number of public bus passengers during the period. Ministry of Transport was also instructed to ensure road traffic flow during December 29, 2021- January 4, 2022 (7 days).
According to the suggestion made by Ministry of Public Health, all passengers on the public buses that have travel time of 4 hours and more must undergo an ATK test and wear mask at all times, both at the terminal and on board. Drivers and service providing staffs must also act in compliance with the COVID-19 related measures.
The Prime Minister has hoped for the decrease of the number of road accidents and casualties, and effective prevention of the COVID-19. The Transport Co., Ltd. expects approx. 60,000 passengers per day (an average of 4,700 trips per day) during December 28-30, 2021, an increase of 3% YOY, and 50,000 passengers per day (an average of 4,500 trips per day) during January 2-3, 2022.
The Government Spokesperson added that the Prime Minister advised the public to plan their trip ahead and choose to travel on the less crowded day to avoid traffic congestion. He also warned those who travel during the Holidays to drive carefully and refrain from speeding and drunk driving to ensure safety. More importantly, they are urged to exercise self-COVID-19 prevention during the New Year Holidays.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/49967