รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM profoundly appreciates King of Saudi Arabia's benevolence for gifting 50,060 copies of Holy Qur’an to Thai Muslims


วันพุธที่ 2 มีนาคม 2565
พิมพ์
PM profoundly appreciates King of Saudi Arabia's benevolence for gifting 50,060 copies of Holy Qur’an to Thai Muslims
PM profoundly appreciates King of Saudi Arabia's benevolence for gifting 50,060 copies of Holy Qur’an to Thai Muslims
March 1, 2022, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen Prayut Chan-o-cha expressed profound appreciation toward King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for gifting 50,060 copies of the Holy Qur’an, in various sizes and translations, to Thailand. The handover ceremony was held on February 26, 2022 in Bangkok.
The Ministry of Islamic Affairs, Dawah and Guidance, represented by the King Fahd Complex for the Printing of the Holy Qur’an, handed over the copies of the Holy Qur’an in the context of efforts to deliver the gift to Muslims around the world before the holy month of Ramadan for this year. The gift is an extension of what was sent to Thailand in the past years, which also coincides with the development of bilateral relations between Thailand and Saudi Arabia. The Holy Qur’an has been translated into 76 languages. The King Fahd Complex has increased its production rate by more than 100%, from seven million copies to 20 million copies annually in high quality, noting that by the end of 2021, the complex produced more than 345 million copies, of which more than 320 million copies were distributed as a gift from the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to Muslims around the world.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the gifting of the Holy Qur’an reflects cordial relations and cooperation between the two countries, especially in social dimension, and the recognition of Thailand’s role among the international Muslim community. This is in line with the Prime Minister’s policy to promote peaceful coexistence and multiculturalism, as well as reconciliation and freedom.
In addition, the launching of Saudia Airlines’ first direct flight to Thailand underscores success of the Prime Minister’s official visit to Saudi Arabia on January 25, 2022. The flight arrived at Suvarnabhumi Airport at 1805hrs on February 28, 2022 with 71 on-board passengers, who have undergone strict public health procedure. The direct flights will open new opportunities for tourism businesses in Thailand from Middle Eastern and European visitors, and promote the country as a regional transit hub.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/52118