รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM delivered statement for the 24th ASEAN-Japan Summit, affirmed ASEAN’s intention to further strengthening ASEAN-Japan cooperation, as Thailand is the Country Coordinator for the


วันพุธที่ 27 ตุลาคม 2564
พิมพ์
PM delivered statement for the 24th ASEAN-Japan Summit, affirmed ASEAN’s intention to further strengthening ASEAN-Japan cooperation, as Thailand is the Country Coordinator for the
PM delivered statement for the 24th ASEAN-Japan Summit, affirmed ASEAN’s intention to further strengthening ASEAN-Japan cooperation, as Thailand is the Country Coordinator for the ASEAN-Japan Dialogue Relations.
October 27, 2021, at 09.30 hrs, at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha attended and delivered a statement at the 24th ASEAN- Japan Summit via a videoconference. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of his statement as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed Prime Minister Kishida to the ASEAN family and today’s Meeting, and congratulated Japan for successfully hosting the Tokyo Olympic and Paralympic Games in Tokyo on July to August this year. He also expressed confidence that the meeting today is a great opportunity for ASEAN and Japan to exchange views on the way forward to advance the ASEAN-Japan partnership, which has been dynamic and has continued to make progress in all dimensions. The Prime Minister, then, deliver the ASEAN Common Statement on behalf of Thailand, as the Country Coordinator for the ASEAN-Japan Dialogue Relations.
ASEAN and Japan have cultivated friendship and cooperation for nearly five decades, based on mutual trust, and a “heart-to-heart” and “equal partnership”. ASEAN appreciates Japan’s continued commitment to promoting durable peace, shared prosperity and sustainable development in the region for the benefit of our peoples.
ASEAN deeply appreciates Japan’s support in addressing the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, and would like to underline the need to step up collaboration in public health and to better prepare the region for future waves of infections and health crises, as well as emerging diseases. Japan’s contribution of USD 1 million to the COVID-19 ASEAN Response Fund and USD 50 million for the establishment of the ACPHEED is also appreciated. ASEAN looks forward to the earliest establishment and operationalization of the Centre.
The Prime Minister added that ASEAN values Japan’s continued support for ASEAN centrality, ASEAN-centered regional architecture, and ASEAN-led mechanisms in various aspects.
On political and security cooperation, ASEAN looks forward to enhancing cooperation with Japan through ASEAN-led mechanisms in the areas of transnational crime, counter-terrorism, cybersecurity, maritime security, as well as through the ADMM-Plus in the area of defense cooperation. ASEAN also emphasizes the need to promote an environment of trust and confidence that is conducive to a rapid and sustainable socio-economic recovery, especially through practical and mutually beneficial cooperation, on the basis of the principles in the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific (AOIP).
On economic cooperation, ASEAN continues to be Japan’s major investment and production base. The region underscores the importance of regional supply chain connectivity and resilience, and encourages Japanese businesses to continue to invest in ASEAN as a key link to fortify Japan’s global supply chains.
ASEAN also underlines the need to utilize the AJCEP and looks forward to the full ratification of the First Protocol to Amend the Agreement by all Parties as soon as possible, towards its early entry into force. Progress in the implementation of the ASEAN Japan Economic Resilience Action Plan is very much welcomed, with a view to promoting post COVID-19 economic recovery, as well as ASEAN-Japan Priority for Innovative and Sustainable Growth, which aims to build capacity for MSMEs, especially their application of digital technology for businesses, which is essential for the 4IR era.
ASEAN looks forward to working with Japan towards concrete implementation of the ASEAN-Japan Joint Statement on Connectivity, adopted at the 22nd ASEAN-Japan Summit, particularly on synergies between the Master Plan on ASEAN Connectivity 2025 and Japan’s Expanded Partnership for Quality Infrastructure in line with ASEAN’s “Connecting the Connectivities” initiative. ASEAN also encourages Japan’s continued support in implementing activities that contribute to regional integration efforts and narrowing the development gap, particularly through the Initiative for ASEAN Integration Work Plan IV.
ASEAN appreciates Japan’s continued support in promoting cultural, sports and people-to-people exchanges through various programs. people-to-people connectivity should also be promoted, especially among the youth, and enhance cooperation on human resource development and education, as well as taking care of the elderly and managing aging societies.
In the context of today’s world where we are facing the challenges of climate change, environmental degradation and natural disasters, focus should be made more on creating and maintaining a balance of things and sustainability in all dimensions, which will help contribute to attaining the SDGs and sustainable recovery. ASEAN appreciates Japan’s contribution to strengthening capacity for marine debris reduction in ASEAN Member States, and looks forward to exploring further cooperation such as collaboration on green growth strategies
On regional and international issues, ASEAN reaffirms the importance of promoting a rules-based regional and international order through upholding international law, including the 1982 UNCLOS, and the importance of maintaining peace, security, stability, safety and freedom of navigation in and overflight above the South China Sea, while underscoring the importance of the full and effective implementation of the DOC in its entirety. ASEAN is encouraged by the progress of the substantive negotiations towards the early conclusion of an effective and substantive COC consistent with international law, and would like to urge all concerned parties to resume peaceful dialogue and continue working towards the realization of lasting peace and stability in a denuclearized Korean Peninsula. The region stands ready to play a constructive role in promoting a conducive atmosphere for peaceful dialogue among the concerned parties, including through ASEAN-led mechanisms such as the ARF.
In closing, the Prime Minister expressed ASEAN’s intent to further strengthening the ASEAN-Japan Strategic Partnership for greater security, prosperity and sustainability. The golden jubilee of ASEAN-Japan relations in 2023 is a special occasion for both sides to review achievements and lessons learned over the past five decades and chart future direction for the next half century. ASEAN also notes with appreciation Japan’s intention to hold a special summit in Japan in 2023 to commemorate this auspicious occasion. Thailand, as the Country Coordinator for ASEAN-Japan Dialogue Relations, stands ready to cooperate with all sides to make the milestone celebration a great success.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/47453