รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM hands down policy on Thailand’s hosting of APEC Summit in 2022


วันจันทร์ที่ 11 ตุลาคม 2564
พิมพ์
​PM hands down policy on Thailand’s hosting of APEC Summit in 2022
​PM hands down policy on Thailand’s hosting of APEC Summit in 2022
October 8, 2021, at 13.30 hrs, at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha presided over the 3/2021 meeting of national committee for preparation of APEC Summit and other related meetings. This meeting will be the last preparation meeting before Thailand’s takeover of the APEC chairmanship from New Zealand in November 2021. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister thanked all concerned agencies for actively working toward tangible outcomes on the preparation of Thailand’s hosting of the APEC Summit in 2022, and emphasized the importance for other APEC economies to be well aware of Thailand’s visions and to gain positive experiences. He also handed down the policy on the exchange of experiences with other APEC economies, especially in trade and investment, digital and technology development, community development, women empowerment, and environment, that could be adopted and developed for the benefit of the country’s social and business sectors, and the Thai people as a whole.
The Prime Minister also emphasized that APEC agendas be in line with the global agendas. Awareness should be raised on the issues of BCG economy, climate change, business and human rights, women empowerment, and public health safety, among others. He also instructed all concerned agencies to take into consideration the public health situation in their preparation for Thailand’s hosting of the APEC Summit.
APEC is an economic cooperation framework that focuses on both a "bottom-up" and "top-down" approach. Working levels range from working groups, committees, senior officials, ministers, to national leaders.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/46830