รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM's statement on climate action, clean energy transformation, and sustainable infrastructure


วันเสาร์ที่ 14 พฤษภาคม 2565
พิมพ์
​PM's statement on climate action, clean energy transformation, and sustainable infrastructure
​PM's statement on climate action, clean energy transformation, and sustainable infrastructure
May 13, 2022, at 1330hrs (Washington DC, U S.A. local time), at the U.S. Department of State, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha delivered a statement at the meeting between ASEAN leaders and U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris. The meeting was also participated by United States special presidential envoy for climate John Kerry, U.S. Secretary of Transportation, U.S. Secretary of Energy, and Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. The discussion focused on climate action, clean energy transformation, and sustainable infrastructure. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of his statement as follows:
The Prime Minister congratulated joint intent of ASEAN and the U.S. to advance climate action. ASEAN is one of the regions that are highly vulnerable to the climate change, and strives to promote cooperation for climate sustainability and immune community through achieving various common goals, such as, increasing the component of renewable energy mix to 23% by 2025. At the World Leaders Summit of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Conference of the Parties (COP26), the Prime Minister affirmed Thailand’s willingness to be more aggressive in addressing the climate change challenges in every way and every means possible, by aiming at reaching carbon neutrality in 2050, and Net Zero Greenhouse Gas Emissions in or before 2065. This effort will advance Thailand’s transition to a low-carbon economy.
According to the Prime Minister, both national, regional, and international cooperation is essential to effectively achieve these goals. Thailand is pleased with the U.S.’s commitment to address the climate change and expand cooperation with ASEAN in this area. The Prime Minister, therefore, proposed the following 3 areas of cooperation:
1. Enhancing technology capacity, especially on renewable energy, clean energy, and digital technology to support clean energy transformation and achieve Net Zero Greenhouse Gas Emissions. This could be accomplished through U.S. investment and technology transfer in EVs, sequestration and use of carbon, smart energy, and low-carbon city. Thailand’s Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC) welcomes U.S. private sector to invest in low-carbon industries, including EV manufacturing, on which the Thai Government sets the target to produce 30% of all auto production in 2030. Including improve safety transportation, and also developing high quality road.
2. Providing financial support to the private sector, entrepreneurs, and the people to promote access to funding for climate action through green financing. With the U.S. international climate financing program, “Green ASEAN” can be supported through investment in green infrastructure, ASEAN Catalytic Green Finance Facility, and green bonds. The Prime Minister added that Thailand has recently launched green and sustainability bonds.
3. Promoting participation of all sectors through a holistic paradigm shift of the public, private, and people sectors, as well as the civil society, to advance economy without sacrificing ecosystem. Thailand has adopted the BCG Economic Model to achieve SDGs  and promote balance growth, and proposed the BCG model as fundamental concept of the country’s hosting of APEC 2022 with an aim to promote “Open. Connect. Balance.” Thailand also stands ready to work with the U.S. to carry this important agenda forward in 2023 and beyond.
Lastly, the Prime Minister emphasized that we “have no time for failure”. Courage, determination, and resoluteness, as well as constructive ways out and non-partisan cooperation, would only guarantee the survival of our world and the next generations.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/54566