รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM attends 9th ASEAN-U.S. Summit, urges ASEAN on moving towards a sustainable “Next Normal"


วันอังคารที่ 26 ตุลาคม 2564
พิมพ์
​PM attends 9th ASEAN-U.S. Summit, urges ASEAN on moving towards a sustainable “Next Normal"
​PM attends 9th ASEAN-U.S. Summit, urges ASEAN on moving towards a sustainable “Next Normal"
October 26, 2021, at 2000hrs, at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha attended and deliver an intervention at the 9th ASEAN-U.S. Summit via a videoconference. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of his intervention as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure to have President Biden joining the ASEAN leaders at this ASEAN-U.S. Summit – sending a clear message on the U.S.’ commitment to reinvigorating its ties with ASEAN based on the shared goal of ensuring peace, stability and prosperity in the region. ASEAN and the U.S. share a 45-year history of comprehensive and constructive cooperation. To this end, The Prime Minister proposed three areas of cooperation as follows:
First is the joint efforts in ensuring equitable and timely distribution of COVID-19 vaccines to the peoples. The Prime Minister thanked President Biden for the U.S.’ large contribution of vaccines to several ASEAN countries, including Thailand. Moreover, the Prime Minister was pleased to learn that the U.S. plans to expand vaccine manufacturing facilities across several regions. Thailand stands ready to cooperate with the U.S. in this regard, including in research and development as well as ensuring effective distribution of vaccines in the regional supply chain.
Second is re-prioritization of efforts on green growth to step into the ‘next normal” world in a sustainable manner. The Prime Minister expressed hope that the U.S. will continue to expand engagement with ASEAN on environment and climate change, particularly by promoting investment and job creation in environment-friendly industries through the U.S. International Climate Finance Plan, which would contribute to the realization of ASEAN’s key climate targets, such as reducing energy intensity by 32 per cent and increasing the component of renewable energy mix to 23 per cent by 2025.
Thailand is committed to reinventing our development path through the Bio-Circular-Green Economy or BCG Model, which focusses on a balance between economic growth and environmental protection for a resilient and sustainable post-COVID-19 recovery.  As the APEC Chair for 2022, the country aims to promote the BCG Model, and stands ready to work with the U.S. to carry this important agenda forward in 2023 and beyond. The Prime Minister also looks forward to welcoming President Biden in Thailand next year.
Lastly, the Prime Minister expressed pleasure that the ASEAN-U.S. Leaders’ Statement on Digital Development was adopted today. This will be a stepping stone for furthering concrete cooperation, especially on the digital economy, which is a key economic driving force that could bring about a USD 1 trillion boost to ASEAN’s GDP by 2025. Thailand also continues to take forward the “Digital Park Thailand” Project under the EEC to be a crown jewel for the creative economy and digital start-ups in the region.
In closing, the Prime Minister emphasized the importance for major powers to work together to create a peaceful environment conducive to the post-COVID-19 recovery. He expressed hope that any on-going developments, including the U.S’ new Indo-Pacific Strategy and the trilateral security partnership or AUKUS, will be further pursued in a constructive spirit, and continue to support ASEAN centrality and the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific, as well as promote peace and the well-being of peoples in the region – the common goal which is shared by all nations.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/47434