รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Thailand and Israel agree on promoting comprehensive bilateral relations and cooperation


วันพุธที่ 20 เมษายน 2565
พิมพ์
​Thailand and Israel agree on promoting comprehensive bilateral relations and cooperation
​Thailand and Israel agree on promoting comprehensive bilateral relations and cooperation
April 20, 2022, at 13.30 hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Ms. Orna Sagiv, Ambassador of the State of Israel to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of her assumption of the position. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed the Israeli Ambassador, and congratulated cordial relations and cooperation between Thailand and Israel in various areas, especially trade and investment, development, and labor. He also expressed confidence that the Ambassador would use her experiences and expertise to further strengthen relations and cooperation in all dimensions.
The Prime Minister and the Israeli Ambassador came to terms that there are still plenty of cooperation potentials for Thailand and Israel, especially in science, technology and innovation. The Prime Minister commended Israel’s expertise in agriculture and water management, as well as COVID-19 prevention and vaccine development, the issues on which Thailand has placed importance and would like to forge further cooperation. The Ambassador praised the Prime Minister for his leadership in effectively administering the COVID-19 situation and equitably distributing vaccines. Israel stands ready to support and cooperate on related R&D, technology, and innovation to better cope with future emergence of communicable diseases.
On labor cooperation, the Israeli Ambassador has met with Thai Minister of Labor the day before to further strengthen relations in this area. The Prime Minister thanked Israel for taking good care of Thai labors, whereas the Ambassador affirmed that the Thai workers are considered high priority labor in Israel. At present, there are approx. 25,000 Thai workers in Israel’s agricultural sector whom have been well taken care of by the Government of Israel.
With regard to economic cooperation, both parties agreed on an increase of mutual trade value as part of the post-COVID-19 economic rehabilitation. The Prime Minister affirmed Thailand’s interest to invest in Israel, and was of the view that the two countries join hands in propelling the BCG Economic Model toward economic recovery and sustainable development goals.
On the development cooperation, the Prime Minister was pleased with close technical cooperation and development between Thailand and Israel, and thanked the latter for donating hydroponic greenhouses to Hup Kraphong Royal Development Project Center. On tourism, both parties were glad that Thailand has been a popular destination among Israelis. The Prime Minister hopes that Israeli tourists would revisit Bangkok once the COVID-19 situation eases.
The Israeli Ambassador also presented the letter of Israeli Prime Minister, in which he commended long-standing relations between the two counties, and hoped to welcome the Thai Prime Minister to visit Israel at the first opportunity, which would be a good chance to comprehensively reinforce bilateral relations and cooperation.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/53765