รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM emphasizes responses to COVID-19, human capital development, and peace in Korean Peninsula at 22nd ASEAN-ROK Summit


วันอังคารที่ 26 ตุลาคม 2564
พิมพ์
PM emphasizes responses to COVID-19, human capital development, and peace in Korean Peninsula at 22nd ASEAN-ROK Summit
PM emphasizes responses to COVID-19, human capital development, and peace in Korean Peninsula at 22nd ASEAN-ROK Summit
October 26, 2021, at 1230hrs, at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha attended and deliver an intervention at the 22nd ASEAN- Republic of Korea Summit via a videoconference. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of his intervention as follows:
The Prime Minister commended President Moon Jae-in’s foreign policy initiatives, particularly the New Southern Policy and the New Southern Policy Plus, which is in line with the ASEAN’s approach to avoid being taken as a theatre of competition and confrontation, especially among major powers. He was also pleased to join other ASEAN leaders in adopting the Joint Statement to further advance ASEAN-ROK cooperation, which includes connecting ASEAN’s initiatives, such as the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific (AOIP) and the ASEAN Comprehensive Recovery Framework, with the New Southern Policy and New Southern Policy Plus. The Prime Minister proposed that both ASEAN and the Republic of Korea give priority to the following:
First is putting the people at the center.  In addressing the COVID-19 challenge and building back stronger, focus needs to be made on harnessing and enhancing human security, which is at the heart of development. Thailand appreciates the ROK’s support to the COVID-19 ASEAN Response Fund and the additional contribution of USD 5 million. The Prime Minister expressed belief that the ROK’s goal to become a Global Vaccine Hub and the plan to implement vaccine diplomacy will play a crucial part in supporting the production, research and development of vaccines, as well as upgrading public health infrastructure and the promotion of Universal Health Coverage in our region.
Second is to prepare ourselves for future challenges and focus on sustainable recovery and development. Thailand is moving towards the Next Normal by reinventing Thailand in both economic and social aspects, as well as improving people’s quality of life, where COVID-19 will only be an endemic. In the Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR) era, focus should be made on development of smart infrastructure, smart city and future industries, as well as upgrading industrial standards, science, technology and innovation, in which the ROK evidently has expertise and success.  Thailand therefore, supports the ROK’s initiative in establishing various centers under the New Southern Policy Plus, which will help push forward the aforementioned areas of cooperation in a concrete manner.
In addition, digital technology and e-commerce by developing digital infrastructure and enhancing digital connectivity while focusing on green development for sustainable growth through the ASEAN Catalytic Green Finance Facility.  Cooperation on alternative approaches should also be explored, such as the BCG, which is in line with President Moon’s “Green New Deal”.
Third is human capital development, in tandem with enhancing people-to-people connectivity, particularly among the youth and younger generations. This can be carried out through educational and cultural exchanges in various forms through new social and digital media, namely music, movies, sports, as well as artists. Various centers, such as the ASEAN-ROK Centre in Seoul, ASEAN-ROK Cultural Center in Bangkok, and ASEAN-ROK Culture House in Busan, should also be made use of. Thailand also appreciates the ROK for tactfully raising the new generations’ awareness of important global issues, by using “soft power”, through the musical performance at the opening of the 2nd SDG Moment during the 76th Session of the UNGA recently.
Lastly, focus should be made on promoting peace for shared prosperity.  Thailand stands ready to continuously and fully cooperate with ASEAN and the international community to reinforce a conducive environment for sustainable recovery and development.  The country also supports the role of the ROK in promoting lasting peace in the Korean Peninsula and recognizes the need to maintain the momentum for the peaceful resolution of disputes.  The Prime Minister expressed hope that all parties concerned will soon resume the dialogue process towards a denuclearized and more prosperous Korean Peninsula.
The Prime Minister very much agreed with what President Moon had stated in his address at the SDG Moment that "all disasters in the world are interconnected" and "if the problems are interconnected, then so be the solutions”.  He reiterated Thailand’s commitment to continue to help solving problems and overcome common challenges with every country.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/47409