รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with members of U.S. House of Representatives to affirm close friendship and partnership between Thailand and U.S.


วันอังคารที่ 9 พฤศจิกายน 2564
พิมพ์
PM meets with members of U.S. House of Representatives to affirm close friendship and partnership between Thailand and U.S.
PM meets with members of U.S. House of Representatives to affirm close friendship and partnership between Thailand and U.S.
November 8, 2021, at 1100hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Mr. Amerish "Ami" Bera, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific, Central Asia, and Nonproliferation, U.S. House of Representatives, led a delegation of members of the U.S. House of Representatives to pay a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his visit to Thailand. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed members of the U.S. House of Representatives. The fact that they were the first group toofficially visit Thailand after the COVID-19 situation reflects long-standing and tight-knit relations between the two countries. Thailand is pleased with the continued relations, exchange of visits, and cooperation in various dimensions, and stands ready to work together with the U.S. for comprehensive and mutual interests.
Mr. Bera expressed pleasure to have visited Thailand. With the current situation and challenges, he was of the view that close partnership between Thailand and the U.S. is crucial. U.S. congressmen stand ready to provide support to the Thai Government and promote cooperation for mutual benefits.
Both parties agreed to strengthen cooperation, and were pleased with the relevance of key policies implemented under the incumbent Government of the two countries, as well as theirshared position on the key global issues, i.e., the climate change and human security promotion (which includes anti-human trafficking and responses to COVID-19 pandemic in both public health and economic aspects).
The Prime Minister was also pleased with an increase of trade activities between Thailand and the U.S. despite the COVID-19 pandemic, and emphasized that the Thai Government has placed importance on providing support to the U.S. investors in Thailand as he meets with the U.S. private sector on an annual basis. Both parties also came to terms to promote security and military cooperation.
Thailand commits to continue promoting close friendship and cooperation with the U.S, and hopes for regional security, prosperity, and peace amidst various challenges and geopolitical changes. The Prime Minister affirmed Thailand’s cooperation and support on the U.S.’ constructive role in the region and the Mekong sub-region through such regional and sub-regional frameworks as ACMECS and US-Mekong Partnership.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/47989