รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM’s phone conversation with Japanese PM


วันอังคารที่ 23 พฤศจิกายน 2564
พิมพ์
PM’s phone conversation with Japanese PM
PM’s phone conversation with Japanese PM
November 22, 2021, at 1550hrs, at the Dome Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha had a phone conversation with H.E. Mr. Kishida Fumio, Prime Minister of Japan, on occasion of the latter’s assumption of the position. The phone meeting was initiated by Japan. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister congratulated the Japanese Prime Minister for winning the election, and expressed the Thai Government’s readiness to cooperate with Prime Minister Kishida and his Government to foster comprehensive strategic partnership. Next year, Thailand and Japan will celebrate 135th anniversary of the diplomatic relations. Thailand is also the ASEAN-Japan Coordinator for 2021-2024, and will host the 2022 APEC Summit. In light of all these events, the Prime Minister hopes for Prime Minister’s Kishida’s visit to the country to further forge Thailand-Japan’ relations into the future. He also thanked Japan for its friendship and support on Thailand’s effort to alleviate the COVID-19 situation.
The Japanese Prime Minister was pleased to talk with the Thai Prime Minister today, and commended and expressed confidence on the latter’s vision and policies. He also congratulated tight-knit and cordial relations between the two countries, and praised Thailand’s role as ASEAN-Japan Coordinator for 2021-2024. Prime Minister Kishida commits to advancing relations with Thailand, and considering visiting the country next year to support Thailand’s APEC chairmanship, and to celebrate the 135th anniversary of the diplomatic relations.
Both parties also discussed issues of mutual interest and concern as follows:
- COVID-19 situation: Thailand has been reopened since November 1, 2021 to allow fully-vaccinated foreigners, including Japanese, to enter the country without being quarantined. The Prime Minister thanked Japan for easing measure for the entering of Thai businessmen, skilled workers, and students, and called on the Japanese Government to consider easing the measure for tourists as well to promote people-to-people relations and stimulate economy of the two countries. The Japanese Prime Minister agreed to consider the matter, taking into account the disease situation in Japan and other countries.
- Trade and investment: The Prime Minister affirmed Thailand’s priority placed on the Japanese investors who have the most investment in the country, and invited them to consider more investment in potential areas for economic recovery of both countries.
- Next phase of cooperation: the Prime Minister was pleased that Thailand’s BCG (Bio-Circular-Green Economy) is in line with Japan’s Green Growth Strategy. A 5-year joint economic strategic plan for Thai-Japan partnership development will be drafted to elevate and set the direction of economic cooperation in the areas of mutual potentials. Thailand hopes to further strengthen cooperation with Japan in the fields of technology and innovation for national transformation.
- Multilateral cooperation: Thailand endorses reinforcement of ASEAN-Japan strategic partnership to promote connectivity between the concepts of Free and Open Indo -
Pacific (FOIP) and ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific (AOIP) for mutual interest. The country is also ready to develop cooperation with Japan under the Mekong – Japan framework, and exchange view on international issues for regional peace and security.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/48605