รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Govt strives to acquire different vaccines to tackle different variants of COVID-19


วันอังคารที่ 20 กรกฎาคม 2564
พิมพ์
Govt strives to acquire different vaccines to tackle different variants of COVID-19
Govt strives to acquire different vaccines to tackle different variants of COVID-19
July 19, 2021, Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that Center for COVID-19 Situation Administration (CCSA) has made approval on July 16, 2021 to acquire 120 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines in 2022, in addition to 105.5 doses for this year. In the meantime, the cabinet, in its meeting on July 6, 2021, also approved for Ministry of Public Health, through Department of Disease Control, to initially procure 20 million doses ofPfizer. The deal between the Government Pharmaceutical Organization (GPO) and Zuellig Pharma LTD. to acquire Moderna vaccines is also in progress.
According to the Government Spokesperson, CCSA’s acquisition and distribution plan for both emergency and alternative vaccines has been laid out at the policy-making level under the advices of the medical team, chaired by Clinical Prof.Emeritus Piyasakol Sakolsatayadorn, M.D. Ministry of Public Health would procure vaccines accordingly to be distributed to the people across the country. These vaccines include AstraZeneca, Sinovac, Pfizer, and Johnson& Johnson which have been and will be given out for free, while Sinopharm and Moderna will be imported as alternative vaccines under the collaboration of concerned government agency and the private sector. Ministry of Public Health also appointed COVID-19 vaccine acquisition committee, chaired by Permanent Secretary to the Ministry, to implement, supervise, and negotiate with concerned organizations on vaccine acquisition in accordance to the set plan and timeframe.
The Prime Minister, as head of CCSA, also handed down the policy to:
Expedite negotiation with vaccine companies who are developing the 2nd generation of vaccines that tackle new variants of virus.
Seek international cooperation on technology transfer for vaccine production under different platforms, such as Inactivated Platform, mRNA Platform, etc.
Support R&D of candidate vaccines that could tackle new variants of virus, lay out the guideline for registration of domestically-developed vaccines, and promote international cooperation on phase III clinical trial of COVID-19 vaccine.
Support a study on long-term immunity of vaccinated people for the consideration of 3rd shot vaccination, closely monitor the development of the new variants, and follow up on the progress of vaccine development in a bid to acquire vaccines for all age groups, especially children and pregnant women.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/43944