รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM chairs handover ceremony of COVID-19 vaccines from the U.S.


วันจันทร์ที่ 2 สิงหาคม 2564
​PM chairs handover ceremony of COVID-19 vaccines from the U.S.
​PM chairs handover ceremony of COVID-19 vaccines from the U.S.
August 2, 2021, at 09.00 hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai KHu Fah Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha presided over the handover ceremony of COVID-19 vaccines given by the United States of America to Thailand. Attending the ceremony was Mr. Michael Heath, Chargé d’ Affaires, a.i., Embassy of the United States of America in Bangkok, as the representative of the U.S. Government. Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister thanked U.S. Government for the donation of COVID-19 vaccines, which reflects over 188 years of long-standing and tightknit relations and friendship between the two countries. This also underscores the commitment of both the Governments to join forces in tackling the COVID-19 situation. The donated vaccines will be useful for Thailand in its endeavor to control spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. He also thanked U.S. Senator Tammy Duckworth and all concerned agencies for pushing forward provision of additional 1 million doses of vaccines, and to the U.S. Government for taking good care of Thai citizens and businesses. The Prime Minister affirmed that the Government would properly administer and allocate vaccines to ensure utmost benefits to the Thai people.
The Chargé d’ Affaires, a.i. of the U.S. Embassy in Bangkok expressed pleasure, on behalf of the U.S. Government, to hand over COVID-19 vaccines (Pfizer) to the Thai Government, and to be part of the country’s effort to curb the disease spread. Thailand and the U.S. have had long-standing cooperation in all dimensions, including public health cooperation which would be further enhanced through the handover of vaccines today. The Chargé d’ Affaires, a.i. of the U.S. Embassy in Bangkok also expressed appreciation toward the Thai Government, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and Ministry of Public Health for taking good care of the U.S. citizens in the country during the pandemic, and hoped that the COVID-19 situation in Thailand would soon ease.
The total of 1,503,450 doses of Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines have already reached Thailand on July 30, 2021.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/44360