รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM orders preparation of mitigation measures against economic fallout from Russia-Ukraine situation


วันอังคารที่ 1 มีนาคม 2565
พิมพ์
PM orders preparation of mitigation measures against economic fallout from Russia-Ukraine situation
PM orders preparation of mitigation measures against economic fallout from Russia-Ukraine situation
February 28, 2022, at 10.30 hrs, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha had an urgent meeting with all the deputy prime ministers, namely, Deputy Prime Minister Gen. Prawit Wongsuwon, Deputy Prime Minister Wissanu Krea-ngam, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, Don Pramudwinai, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Public Health Anutin Charnvirakul, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Energy Supattanapong Punmeechaow, and all concerned agencies to discuss the ongoing Ukraine-Russia situation and mitigation measures against possible economic fallout. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed great concern over theintensification of Ukraine-Russia situation, which has more or less affected all the countries across the globe. Thai economy would definitely be impacted should the situation be prolonged.
The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairsinformed the meeting that Thailand issued a statement to express concern and support the ongoing effort to resolve the situation through peaceful means. ASEAN also issued ASEAN Foreign Ministers’ Statement on the Situation in Ukraine to call on all relevant parties to exercise maximum restraint and make utmost efforts to pursue dialogues through all channels, including diplomatic means to contain the situation, to de-escalate tensions, and to seek peaceful resolution in accordance with international law, the principles of the United Nations Charter and the Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in Southeast Asia.Thailand is pleased with the decision of the two sides to pursue dialogues, and stands ready to provide full humanitarian support to those affected by the crisis.
Other than the evacuation of Thais in Ukraine, the Prime Minister ordered concerned agencies to prepare comprehensiveplans/measures to mitigate possible economic fallout, especially with regard to gasoline prices, stock market, currency exchange, trade, and investments in the case that the situation escalates.
The Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Energy informed the meeting that although Thailand’s import of energy and oil reserve remains unaffected, Ministry of Energy has closely monitored the situation, and prepared mitigation measures to minimize impact against the people.
The Prime Minister was also reported on the flood situation in the Southern provinces of Narathiwat, Yala, Nakhon Si Thammarat, Phatthalung, Pattani, Songkhla, and Trang, and the effort to address poverty. As of now, flood level in all the provinces has decreased, while assistance provided to affected people is now underway. On poverty eradication, the Prime Minister instructed concerned deputy prime ministers and agencies to address the problem in an urgent and proactive manner through adoption of various Government’s initiatives and policies, such as smart farmers, Khok Nong Na Model, etc.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/52088