รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Govt strives to promote Thailand as year-round tourist destination


วันเสาร์ที่ 30 กรกฎาคม 2565
พิมพ์
​Govt strives to promote Thailand as year-round tourist destination
​Govt strives to promote Thailand as year-round tourist destination
July 27, 2022, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha has handed down a policy to concerned agencies to upgrade Thai tourism industry in a sustainable manner.
Tourism Authority of Thailand (TAT) has come up with the 2023 marketing plan to sustainably revive tourism and create balances of Thai tourism industry in all dimensions. Focus will be made on promoting high-value sustainable tourism through an integrative effort of all concerned sectors. The following 4 strategies will be implemented: 1) Drive Demand, 2) Meaningful Travel, 3) Shape supply, and 4) High Value and Sustainability. The country's soft power will also be synergized in this endeavor to further promote Thailand as "world-class tourism destination".
With regard to domestic tourism promotion, the campaign "365 Days of Thai Wonders... Daily Traveling" will be launched by highlighting identities and uniqueness of each region that are to the liking of wide-ranging groups of tourists in order to increase their spending. As for the long-term plan, TAT has planned to promote Thailand as year-round tourist destination, promote open area-based markets in new countries, such as Saudi Arabia, and in secondary cities of existing markets. Target revenue for tourism in 2023 has been set at 2.38 trillion Baht.
In addition, Agoda.com, world’s renowned tourism digital platform, conducted a survey on 2022 world’s most popular destinations for post-pandemic, and Bangkok topped the list, while Pattaya ranks 8th.
The Prime Minister commended all concerned agencies for their integrative and efficient effort in the development of Thai tourism industry, which has boosted the confidence of foreign tourists, and sustain Thailand’s popularity as top tourist destination. He also instructed them to continue to create awareness among the tourists, and elevate Thai tourism industry toward sustainable growth, in line with current competitiveness and socio-economic challenges of the new world.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/57430