รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Progress made on various EEC projects


วันอังคารที่ 10 สิงหาคม 2564
พิมพ์
Progress made on various EEC projects
Progress made on various EEC projects
August 9, 2021, Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha was reported on the progress of various project implementations under the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC), gist of which is as follows:
1. Water source acquisition to solve short-term shortage and for long-term sustainability: Up until 2037, 38 water sources development and water resource management projects, worth 52,874.47 million Baht in total, have been and will be implemented. Currently, 9 projects have been completed.
EEC’s desalination project is now in the process of a preliminary study, conducted by the technical committee of the Desalination Development Project. Royal Irrigation Department, the Department of Water Resources, and other concerned agencies were assigned to work together on the development and improvement of Khlong Bang Phai Reservoir (total area of 3,348 rai), and the development of 4 large-scale and high-capacity underground water sources, which could produce up to 4.039 billion cubic meters.
2. As of June 30, 2021, total investment value in the EEC accounts for 1,594,282 million Baht. Megaprojects include 4 public-private partnership (PPP) projects, worth 633,401 million Baht in total.
86% of the construction area of the High-Speed Rail Linked 3 Airport Project has been handed over. The rest will be handed over by September 2021. U-Tapao Airport Master Planning is also in the progress. The Royal Thai Navy has also finalized the design of Runway 2 and related works.
3. PPP contracts with private partners for Laem Chabang Port phase 3 have been finalized, and are being scrutinized by Office of Council of State before being submitted to the cabinet for final approval.
The Eastern Economic Corridor Policy Committee, in its 2/2021 meeting on August 4, 2021, also deliberated the problem related to the overlapping route (Bang Sue- Don Mueang section) of the High-Speed Rail Linked 3 Airport and the Thai-Chinese high-speed railroad. The two projects will use the same civil structures, but construction period and technical standard of both projects are inconsistent. The EEC Policy Committee assigned Ministry of Transport and State Railways of Thailand (SRT) to negotiate with concerned private partners on possible solutions, which may include compensation on condition that additional budget is not required and that the construction plan of both projects are most efficiently implemented.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/44638