รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM congratulated the Thai women's volleyball team for making history by qualifying for the first time in the Volleyball Women's Nations League for the quarterfinals.


วันจันทร์ที่ 4 กรกฎาคม 2565
PM congratulated the Thai women's volleyball team for making history by qualifying for the first time in the Volleyball Women's Nations League for the quarterfinals.
PM congratulated the Thai women's volleyball team for making history by qualifying for the first time in the Volleyball Women's Nations League for the quarterfinals.
On July 4, 2022, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that the Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha, congratulations to the Thai women's national volleyball team for qualifying for the quarterfinals of the FIVB Volleyball Women's Nations League 2022 or VNL 2022 after performing admirably throughout the competition and bringing joy to Thai brothers and sisters.
The Government Spokesperson also stated that the Thai women's national volleyball team, which competed in VNL 2022 in the third field in Sofia, Bulgaria, played the remaining four matches against South Korea, the Dominican Republic, Brazil, and Italy. The Thai women's national volleyball team won 3-0 sets against South Korea but lost 1-3 sets to Dominicans, 1-3 sets to Brazil, and 0-3 to Italy, resulting in the team having competed in 12 matches, winning 5 games and losing 7 games. However, the Thai women's national volleyball team's impressive performance throughout the VNL 2022 tournament from the first week allowed Thai to accumulate points in the top 8 of the table and made the team able to participate in the quarterfinals, marking the first time in the history of the Nations League that the Thai national team was proficient enough to attain the quarterfinals. Furthermore, the latest Thai women's national volleyball teams are now ranked 14th in the world, up from 19th before participating in the competition; still, the team will join the playoffs with Türkiye, the world's fifth team, which is also the host, and the final race will be held in Ankara, Türkiye on July 13, 2022.
"The Prime Minister is overjoyed that the Thai women's national volleyball team did an outstanding job and regularly brought smiles to Thai people throughout the competition. The Thai women's national volleyball team has ascertained outstanding and impressive talent, potential, and skill in volleyball for international and volleyball fans worldwide. As a direct consequence, the team was able to pass through the quarterfinals. The Prime Minister would like to send encouragement to the Thai women's national volleyball team in the next round." Mr. Thanakorn stated.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/56505