รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM affirms Thailand’s commitment to promotefood security and sustainable transformation of global food system


วันศุกร์ที่ 24 กันยายน 2564
พิมพ์
PM affirms Thailand’s commitment to promotefood security and sustainable transformation of global food system
PM affirms Thailand’s commitment to promotefood security and sustainable transformation of global food system
September 24, 2021, at 0315hrs (1615hrs in New York, USA), Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha delivered a statement via a teleconference at the “Food Systems Summit 2021”, held at the UN Headquarters in New York, USA. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of his statement as follows:
Thailand, as a country with large and strong agricultural sector, has been well aware of the importance of food system to the survival of mankind. The COVID-19 situation has unfolded the problems of social disparity and vulnerability of the food system. Thailand would like to urge global community to transform the food system toward sustainability and balance in all dimensions, and create food security that is stable, good for health, and accessible to everyone, to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
According to the Prime Minister, one of the successful projects to address food scarcity and malnutrition in the remote areas is the “Agriculture for School Lunch” project under the royal initiative of Her Royal Highness Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn. The five elements under UN’s food system transformation scheme are also in line with Thailand’s “3S” food and agriculture policy to achieve safety, security and sustainability of agricultural ecosystem.
Thailand is implementing the Bio-Circular-Green (BCG) Economy on the basis of the 20-Year National Strategy, Sufficiency Economy Philosophy, and the SDGs for balanced, sustainable, and inclusive development. We also place importance on soil and water resource management through the collaboration with UN on “World Soil Day” declaration, and with the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) to award countries/organizations/individuals who have played an important role and are notable in sustainable soil maintenance and management.
In closing, the Prime Minister affirmed Thailand’s readiness to forge close collaboration with domestic and international networks in strengthening global food system to attain “FoodSystems4SDGs” without leaving anyone behind.
The Prime Minister’s attendance at the “Food Systems Summit 2021” was a good opportunity for Thailand to propose ideas in transitioning food system toward sustainability, fair access, and nutritiousness from the production process to consumption, and to affirm the country’s commitment to become the “Green Kitchen of the World”. Thailand also stands ready to join force with other countries to achieve the DCGs by the year 2030.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/46171