รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with members of American Chamber of Commerce in Thailand (AMCHAM)


วันเสาร์ที่ 20 พฤศจิกายน 2564
พิมพ์
PM meets with members of American Chamber of Commerce in Thailand (AMCHAM)
PM meets with members of American Chamber of Commerce in Thailand (AMCHAM)
November 18, 2021, at 1000hrs, at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House, President of the American Chamber of Commerce in Thailand (AMCHAM) led AMCHAM executives and member businessmen to pay a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha via a teleconference. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed AMCHAM members and the U.S. private sector who have been important partners in driving forward the Thai economy, especially during the COVID-19 situation. The Prime Minister has always paid importance on meeting with the private sector to exchange views and promote cooperation for the country's competitiveness enhancement, post-COVID 19 "Next Normal" economic recovery, and inclusive, equitable, and sustainable growth, as well as the building of atmosphere conducive to trade and investment, and business operation. He called on the U.S. private sector to continue to cooperate with the Thai Government in driving national economic development.
Mr. Gregory Wong, AMCHAM president, expressed honor to meet with the Prime Minister today. This meeting was unprecedented and historic as it was attended by various concerned sectors. There were over 400 AMCHAM members attending the meeting. The AMCHAM president affirmed American private sector’s confidence on Thailand’s potential, and their readiness to work with the Government to promote Thailand as world’s economic hub. He also commended the Government’s policies, and expressed support on Thailand’s APEC chairmanship.
Representatives from 3 groups of business corporates, i.e., multinational companies, leading Thai corporates, and SMEs, expressed appreciation toward the Thai Government for its commitment to build the environment conducive to business operation, and to reduce investment barriers and obstacles. The U.S. private sector also commits to cooperate with the Thai Government to drive Thai economy forward.
The Prime Minister stated about the better situation of COVID-19 pandemic in the country that it is partly due to the vaccination effort to create herd immunity. Thailand is also a production base of AstraZeneca vaccines which benefits both the country and the region, and would like to forge further cooperation with the U.S. private sector on quality and safe vaccine R&D, production, and contribution. COVID-19 measures related to travelling have also been eased to allow the country reopening since November 1 with the aim to maintain balance between health protection and economic recovery under the “Smart Control and Living with COVID-19” policy without leaving anyone behind.
The Thai Government places importance on applying the BCG economic model for balanced and sustainable economic development. The ESG (Environmental, Social, and Governance) approach for business operation and green economy are also prioritized and promoted. Recently in Glasgow, the Prime Minister declared the country’s commitment to be more aggressive in addressing climate change challenges by aiming at reaching carbon neutrality in 2050, and Net Zero Emission in or before 2065 through the implementation of the 4D1E energy policy, and the EV30@30 Campaign which is to speed up deployment and reach a 30% sales share for electric vehicles by 2030. Thailand welcomes U.S. private sector’s investment in both energy sector and EV & parts manufacturing, and would be glad to collaborate with the U.S. Government to promote flexibility, diversity, and security of regional supply chain, especially investment in the EEC of which the investors can take advantage to connect to other countries in the region under the Thailand+1 policy.
The Government also strives to promote the development of digital infrastructure under the Digital Thailand framework and the Thailand 4.0 policy. Projects implemented include upgrade of telecommunication infrastructure, promotion of e-commerce, digital investment, digital startup, electronic service management, and amendment of laws. The Prime Minister also invited the U.S. private sector to consider collaborating with Thailand in the development of digital economy, especially an investment in the EECd.
With regards to the Government’s effort to improve the environment conducive to business operation, the following progress has been made: 1) review and amendment of related laws and regulations to better facilitate the private sector; 2) use of digital technology to improve public services; and 3) promotion of entrepreneurs’ access to digital technology to expand marketing channels both within and outside the country. The cabinet also made a decision to implement 12 areas of e-services, and regulatory amendment measure to stimulate economy and investment activities, as well as to attract high-potential foreigners to Thailand as long-term residents.
On the APEC chairmanship in 2022, the theme has been set as “Open. Connect. Balance”, with the 3 priorities to be targeted, that is, 1) facilitating trade and investment; 2) advancing sustainable and inclusive growth; and 3) rebooting regional connectivity, especially travel and tourism for post-COVID-19 economic recovery. The Government has also placed importance on the engagement of private sector, including the U.S. private sector who may contribute and support the continuity of shared issues of priority, as Thailand will hand over APEC chairmanship to the U.S. in 2023.
Toward the end of the meeting, the Prime Minister emphasized the Government’s commitment to drive forward post-COVID-19 economic recovery, and assured the U.S. private sector of the country’s economic potential. He also thanked and affirmed Thailand’s readiness to cooperate with and provide full support to AMSHAM.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/48493