รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand and Brunei to continue reinforcing relations and cooperation


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 24 มิถุนายน 2564
พิมพ์
Thailand and Brunei to continue reinforcing relations and cooperation
Thailand and Brunei to continue reinforcing relations and cooperation
June 23, 2021, at 13.30hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Haji Ismail bin Haji Abd Manap, Ambassador of Brunei Darussalam to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his completion of tenure. Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister commended cordial friendship between Thailand and Brunei, and thanked the Bruneian Ambassador for his active role in promoting relations and cooperation between the two countries throughout the 6 years of his tenure. He also affirmed Thailand’s commitment to continue cooperating and supporting the incoming Ambassador of Brunei Darussalam, and to promote cooperation in the areas of mutual potentials.
The Bruneian Ambassador expressed appreciation toward the Thai Government for its support and facilitation, and congratulated cordial relations between Thailand and Brunei, with the regular exchange of visits prior to COVID-19, and close cooperation in education and public health, among others. He also praised the Thai Government’s commitment and policy on COVID-19 disease control. The Prime Minister thanked the Bruneian Government for supporting and facilitating repatriation and vaccination of the Thai citizens.
The Prime Minister was of the view that Thailand and Brunei have significant potentials for expansion of cooperation, especially in Agriculture, food security and Halal industry, human resource development, medicine and medical tourism. He also commended Brunei’s vision: Wawasan 2035.
With regard to multilateral cooperation, the Prime Minister praised Brunei’s ASEAN chairmanship this year amidst a number of challenging situations. Thailand would like to affirm its support over Brunei’s active role at the ASEAN stage, and endorse ASEAN’s cooperation to cope with key environmental issues, i.e., global warming, climate change, and marine debris, etc., in a bid to achieve tangible outcomes.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/43062