รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Thailand-EU to expand cooperation under EU Strategy for Cooperation in the Indo-Pacific


วันจันทร์ที่ 14 กุมภาพันธ์ 2565
พิมพ์
​Thailand-EU to expand cooperation under EU Strategy for Cooperation in the Indo-Pacific
​Thailand-EU to expand cooperation under EU Strategy for Cooperation in the Indo-Pacific
February 11, 2022, at 1330hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. David Daly, Ambassador of the European Union to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his assumption f the position. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed the EU Ambassador to Thailand. With the Ambassador’s experiences and well-rounded knowledge on the country, he expressed confidence that the Ambassador would play a significant role in further strengthening relations between Thailand and EU, and promoting tangible cooperation in new potential areas. The Prime Minister also thanked EU for certifying the Thailand Digital Health Pass ("Mor Prompt") to be used for traveling to over 60 countries/territories that are part of the EU Digital COVID Certificate System, which greatly contributes to restoration of traveling and tourism between the two sides.
The EU Ambassador expressed pleasure to be tenured in Thailand, and thanked the Thai Government for its continued support. He also commended the Thai Government’s effort in addressing various problems, and affirmed EU’s support and cooperation for utmost interest of both sides. The Ambassador congratulated Thailand’s hosting of the 2022 APEC, which would be a good start in expanding trade and investment cooperation with other regions, including EU.
The Prime Minister and the EU Ambassador also discussed key cooperation issues as follows:
Thailand is pleased with the EU Strategy for Cooperation in the Indo-Pacific, which will increase EU’s engagement in the Indo-Pacific, including Thailand and is aimed to respond to emerging dynamics that are affecting regional stability, such as sustainable development, climate change, biodiversity protection, among others.
Both parties also agreed on promoting partnership, especially under the framework of Comprehensive Partnership and Cooperation Agreement (PCA), and on expediting Thailand-EU FTA negotiation. They also came to terms on the ending of global conflicts through peace talk, and on utilizing cooperation frameworks in addressing wide-ranging global issues.
The EU Ambassador followed up on his invitation for the Prime Minister to attend ‘High-level event ‘Thailand-EU Partners in Business’ at the French Ambassador’s residence in Bangkok. The Prime Minister thanked for the invitation, and agreed to consider attending the event. He also affirmed the Government’s support and cooperation with the EU Ambassador and Delegation of the European Union to Thailand.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/51544