รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM affirms close and cordial relations between Thailand and Lao PDR


วันพุธที่ 23 กุมภาพันธ์ 2565
​PM affirms close and cordial relations between Thailand and Lao PDR
​PM affirms close and cordial relations between Thailand and Lao PDR
February 22, 2022, at 15.00 hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Seng Soukhathivong, Ambassador of Lao People's Democratic Republic to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his tenure completion. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister thanked the Lao PDR Ambassador for his role in strengthening relations and cooperation between Thailand and Lao PDR throughout his tenure, and commended brotherly relations between the two countries. He also expressed pleasure to learn about the plan for Lao PDR Prime Minister Phankham Viphavanh’s official visit to Thailand in the middle of this year, which would be a good opportunity to officially elevate relations into strategic partnership for growth and sustainable development.
The Lao PDR Ambassador expressed pleasure and honor to have been tenured in Thailand for 4.5 years, and thanked the Prime Minister, Thai Government, and the Thai people for their support and facilitation throughout his tenure, which has resulted in tangible progress in mutual relations and exchange of visits between people of the two countries. He also expressed appreciation toward the Thai Government for providing assistance during the country’s flood disaster in 2019 and COVID-19 medical supplies.
Both parties also discussed the following key issues of mutual interest:
Reopening of cross-border checkpoints: Both the Prime Minister and the Ambassador hoped for safe reopening of cross-border checkpoints, which will normalize the way of living of the local people, and could contribute to the increase of border trade value, and economic recovery of the two countries.
Labor cooperation: Lao PDR is ready to send Lao PDR workers to Thailand via formal and legal channels, with which the Prime Minister was pleased. concerned Thai agencies has been instructed to facilitate extension of visa and work permit to Lao PDR workers. The Prime Minister also affirmed the Government’s commitment to take good care of the Lao PDR workers and ensure their equitable access to COVID-19 treatment and vaccination.
Connectivity: The Prime Minister commended the success of Laos-China railway, and hoped that the railway could be connected with Thai railway system soon. He also called on Lao PDR Government to consider streamlining customs process and adjusting related fee rates collected at the Thanaleng Dry Port (TDP), Vientiane Logistics Park (VLP), to minimize redundancy and attract more Thai investors to use the Laos-China railway services. Lao PDR was also urged to consider the development of R12 route which would also benefit the development of the country’s local communities along the route.
Toward the end of the meeting, the Prime Minister affirmed Thailand’s commitment to cooperate with Lao PDR in all areas of mutual interest, especially the BCG economic model and other issues that are relevant with Thailand’s 2022 APEC chairmanship, for the best interest of Thailand and Lao PDR and people of the two countries.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/51857