รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​The government supports tourism within the country. Prime Minister appointed the Ministry of Finance to consider budgeting for stimulus measurement.


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 9 มิถุนายน 2565
​The government supports tourism within the country. Prime Minister appointed the Ministry of Finance to consider budgeting for stimulus measurement.
​The government supports tourism within the country. Prime Minister appointed the Ministry of Finance to consider budgeting for stimulus measurement.
On June 9, 2022, Ms. Traisuree Taisaranakul, Deputy Government Spokesperson, disclosed that Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha, Prime Minister and Defense Minister, has given importance to focusing on the continual recovery of tourism, both foreign tourists to Thailand and the number of Thai people travelling in the country.  In terms of tourism in the country, the Prime Minister has appointed the Ministry of Finance to evaluate appropriate budgeting in order to facilitate national tourists.
The Prime Minister has also authorized the applicable agencies to generate activities to stimulate national tourism and reduce travelling abroad, which will help refurbish the tourism industry in the country. Recently, the Tourism Authority of Thailand (TAT) has integrated with relevant agencies, both public and private sectors, in various marketing activities according to the campaign "Amazing Thailand, Now even more Amazing" with a targeted strategy to create interest in tourist attractions in each region, whether “North Nostalgia” in the north, “Trendy C2” in the central area, “East at Ease” in the east, “Isan in Love” in the northeastern area, and “Savory South” in the south.
However, the Prime Minister also emphasized to all agencies to revitalize the tourism sector that we must focus on distributing income to the secondary cities and push for community tourism to distribute income to locals. As a result, the strength will arise from the foundation level of the economy.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/55550