รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM chairs launch of first commercial flight to Yala’s Betong International Airport


วันอังคารที่ 15 มีนาคม 2565
พิมพ์
PM chairs launch of first commercial flight to Yala’s Betong International Airport
PM chairs launch of first commercial flight to Yala’s Betong International Airport
March 14, 2022, at 12.45 hrs, at Betong International Airport, Rayom sub-district, Betong district, Yala province, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha presided over the launch of the first commercial flight to land at the airport. Participating in the event were Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Public Health Anutin Charnvirakul, Minister of Interior Gen. Anupong Paojinda, Minister of Transport Saksayam Chidchob, Deputy Minister of Transport Atirat Ratanasate, Yala Governor Pirom Nilthaya, and concerned executives and officials. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist as follows:
The Prime Minister congratulated the launch of the first commercial flight to land at Betong International Airport, and commended architectural and interior design of the airport which showcases local identity to become Betong’s latest landmark.
According to the Prime Minister, the Government strives to push forward Betong as “model border trade and tourism city” under the Growth Triangle for Security, Prosperity, and Sustainability in the Southern Border Provinces. Betong has drawn a great number of travelers with its multiculturalism, beautiful nature, and great potential in terms of investment, border trade, and tourism. The Betong International Airport would facilitate travel to the district, contribute to local trade, investment, and tourism, and could elevate Betong as aviation hub of the Southern border provinces.
The Government also plans to promote connectivity with other countries in the region, especially Malaysia. Thailand takes pride in its multiculturalism and peaceful coexistence of the people, which is the strong foundation for national development. Although the country has been facing with a number of problems, especially the ongoing international conflict, the impact would be minimized with the people’s solidarity and the Government’s commitment to solve the problems and bring the people happiness. Everyone is called on to have faith in each other and not to incite conflict nor hatred in the society. The Prime Minister also urged the military, security officials, and Southern Border Provinces Administrative Centre (SBPAC) to ensure safety and wellbeing of the people. Local MPs are also called on to help alleviate people’s plights to the best of their abilities.
The Prime Minister, then, met with the local people. He expressed pleasure to witness the growth of Betong district, called on everyone’s cooperation and understanding, and reaffirmed the Government’s commitment to solve all the problems in an inclusive manner, especially poverty and household debts, for the future of the next generations.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/52571