รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM orders concerned agencies to provide full and equitable assistance to Russian and Ukrainian tourists


วันจันทร์ที่ 21 มีนาคม 2565
พิมพ์
PM orders concerned agencies to provide full and equitable assistance to Russian and Ukrainian tourists
PM orders concerned agencies to provide full and equitable assistance to Russian and Ukrainian tourists
March 18, 2022, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha has closely followed up on the assistance offerred to Russian and Ukrainian tourists in Thailand who have been affected by the ongoing dispute between the two countries. Ministry of Tourism and Sports has estimated that approx. 8,000 tourists (7,000 Russians and 1,000 Ukrainians) have been stranded in Thailand, most of whom are in Phuket and Surat Thani provinces. Assistance includes provision of alternate methods of payment, shelters during their wait for a repatriation flight, and Hotline interpreters, among others.
According to the Government Spokesperson, most of the tourists have sought help on the extension of stay in Thailand, on which the Immigration Office has closely coordinated with the Russian Embassy in Thailand. Tourists may opt for the 3rd airline to travel back home, such as Qatar Airways or Turkish Airlines, in the wake of the cancellation of flights scheduled with Russian airlines. Ministry of Tourism and Sports are also providing shelters, food, and other needed assistance to Russian and Ukrainian tourists.
With regard to the payment problem, Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Thailand have carried out publicity to inform the affected tourists of alternate money transfer systems, such as TransferWise, Western Union, and MoneyGram, which are available for service at both commercial banks (Siam Commercial Bank, KBANK, and Government’s Savings Bank) and non-banks (Central, Thai Post, and Sawasdee shop). The tourists will be made aware of other money sending systems through 3 channels: 1) commercial banks, 2) Tourism Authority of Thailand, through tourism business networks, and 3) Phuket Tourist Association and the Thai Hotel Association Southern Chapter.
The Prime Minister assigned Ministry of Tourism and Sports as core agency to integrate cooperation with other concerned agencies in a bid to provide comprehensive and equitable help to both Russian and Ukrainian tourists. The Embassy of Russia and the Embassy of Ukraine to Thailand have closely been liaised by concerned agencies. The Prime Minister has regularly been updated on the situation and operations. He affirmed Thailand’s full assistance to tourists of all nationalities as the country is friend, not foe, to all sides. The Thai Government has placed priority on the humanitarian assistance to both Russians and Ukrainians in Thailand. Tourists may rest assured that the Thai Government would take good care of and help them to the best of its ability.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/52784