รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM emphasizes adoption of Sufficiency Economy Philosophy and promotion of BCG economic model at UNGA 76


วันอังคารที่ 21 กันยายน 2564
พิมพ์
PM emphasizes adoption of Sufficiency Economy Philosophy and promotion of BCG economic model at UNGA 76
PM emphasizes adoption of Sufficiency Economy Philosophy and promotion of BCG economic model at UNGA 76
September 20, 2021, at 2141hrs (1041hrs in New York, USA), Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha delivered a statement via a teleconference at the General Debate of the 76th Session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA 76) under theme “Sustainable Development Goals (SDG Moment)”. Gist of his statement is as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure to engage in the SDG Moment activities. The Thai Government, together with all concerned sectors, continues to drive sustainable development under the Sufficiency Economy Philosophy, and has formulated the 20-Year National Strategy to implement policies and utilize budget for the development that leads to SDGs achievement. Thailand has submitted the Voluntary National Review (VNR) to UN in July 2021 to present the progress made in achieving the global goals and the snapshot where the country stands in SDG implementation. The Prime Minister also emphasized 3 major targets to achieve the SDGs:
Promotion of quality of life & well-being for people of all ages: The COVID-19 pandemic underscores the importance of strong public healthcare system, and inclusive universal health coverage, as well as allocation of budget for health insurances, and upgrade of medical industry and public health services, to ensure self-reliance during times of crisis for all Thai people, especially the elderlies, a group that is rapidly increasing in population.
“Balance of All Things”: To build back the economy through a “Balance of All Things” approach. Bio-Circular-Green (BCG) Economy will be driven for sustainable and environmental-friendly development of industries on the basis of scientific advancement, technology, and innovation. Thailand strives to add value to agro and food industries, take forward the development of bioindustry and alternative energy, and restructure its automotive industry to become one of the world’s major manufacturing bases. The country also aims to have electric vehicles (EV) account for 30% of its automotive production by 2030.
Inequality elimination and digital literacy development: to unlock people’s potentials and use Thai People Map and Analytics Platform (TPMAP), developed as a government Big Data system, to identify the poor and their problems.
According to the Prime Minister, cooperation and integrative effort of all sectors, be it, public, private, or people sectors, are needed to achieve the SDGs. He affirmed Thailand’s commitment to move forward without leaving anyone behind, and to cooperate with other countries in achieving the SDGs together.
The SDG Moment is an annual event mandated by Heads of State and Government in the 2019 SDG Summit political declaration, and took place for the first time in 2020. The Prime Minister’s statement elaborated the country’s action plan to achieve SDGs, especially adoption of Sufficiency Economy Philosophy, and promotion of the BCG economic model to drive forward post-COVID-19 economic recovery in a balanced manner.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/46037