รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand and India to comprehensively reinforce bilateral and multilateral relations


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 18 สิงหาคม 2565
พิมพ์
Thailand and India to comprehensively reinforce bilateral and multilateral relations
Thailand and India to comprehensively reinforce bilateral and multilateral relations
August 17, 2022, at 1400hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Subrahmanyam Jaishankar, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of India, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his visit to Thailand to attend the 9th Joint Commission for Bilateral Cooperation (JC). Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed Indian Minister of Foreign Affairs, and commended close and cordial relations and friendship between the two countries. As this year marks the 75th anniversary of the diplomatic relations, the Prime Minister hoped that the two countries continue to promote relations and cooperation in all dimensions and levels for mutual interest toward future elevation of partnership.
The Indian Foreign Minister expressed appreciation for the warm welcome, and congratulated the success of the 9th Joint Commission for Bilateral Cooperation, which was a good opportunity for both countries to push forward pending issues of cooperation. The Indian Foreign Minister commended relations between Thailand and India during the COVID-19 situation where both sides have been helping and supporting each other. He also conveyed the regards of Prime Minister Modi of India to the Prime Minister, while the latter sent his regards to the Indian counterpart, whom he takes as a close friend, and the newly-appointed president of India.
Both parties also discussed the issues of mutual interest:
On the security issue, both sides came to terms to capitalize on existing cooperation mechanisms to promote regional peace and security, and advance new forms of security cooperation, such as marine security, national prevention industry, and training on cyber security.
Thailand and India have been forging strong economic cooperation, as India is Thailand’s no. 1 trade partner in the South Asian region. Nevertheless, there are much more potential and opportunity for an expansion of trade and investment, especially in Thailand’s Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC). The Prime Minister extended his invitation for Indian business operators to consider investment in the EEC in the areas of their expertise, i.e., next generation automotive, smart electronics, robotics, aviation and logistics, biofuels and biochemicals, digital, and medical. The Indian Minister of Foreign Affairs affirmed that Thailand is India’s important investment destination in ASEAN, and the Indian Government would be pleased to encourage more Indian investment in Thailand. He also welcomed more Thai investment in his country.
With regards to public health cooperation, the Prime Minister was pleased with close assistance and support provided to each other country during the COVID-19 situation, and that Thailand and India have signed an MOU to promote medical and public health cooperation, and research and medicine cooperation. The MOU has been drafted as a result of a phone conversation between Prime Ministers of the two countries in 2020.
On connectivity, both parties agreed to advance cooperation on the development of India - Myanmar - Thailand Trilateral Highway project, which will connect India with the Southeast Asian countries, and contribute to trade and investment development and people-to-people relations. With regards to tourism cooperation, Indians are among top tourists to visit Thailand. The Prime Minister was of the view that both countries further strengthen tourism cooperation and people-to-people exchange, and seek possible direction for an increase of aviation flights to accommodate tourism activities.
Both parties also discussed multilateral cooperation. The Prime Minister was pleased with continuous development of relations under the ASEAN-India framework, and affirmed Thailand’s readiness to advance cooperation with India in the areas of mutual interest, and in building regional peace and security, in accordance with the ASEAN-India Joint Statement on Cooperation on the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific for Peace, Stability, and Prosperity in the Region. He also called on India’s support for Thailand’s BIMSTEC chairmanship (2021-2023), while the Indian Foreign Minister hoped for Thailand’s endorsement on the development of India-ASEAN FTA.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/58143