รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM arrives in Washington D.C. for 2nd ASEAN-U.S. Special Summit


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 12 พฤษภาคม 2565
​PM arrives in Washington D.C. for 2nd ASEAN-U.S. Special Summit
​PM arrives in Washington D.C. for 2nd ASEAN-U.S. Special Summit
May 12, 2022, at 05.55 hrs (Thailand time, or 18.55 hrs of May 11, 2022 in Washington D.C.), Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha arrived at Washington D.C. United States of America to attend the 2nd ASEAN-U.S. Special Summit during May 12-13, 2022.
Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed the Prime Minister’s schedule during the visit, that is, to attend dinner reception hosted by U.S. President Joe Biden at the White House, a meeting between ASEAN leaders and the U.S. President, and other meetings with U.S. high-level officials, House Speaker, and the private sector. Discussion at these meetings will be focused on post-pandemic recovery and the region’s sustainable growth, such as global health security, climate change, sustainable development, maritime cooperation, human capital development, education and people-to-people ties, as well as connectivity and economic engagement. ASEAN and the U.S. will also exchange views on regional and international issues of common interest and concern. The Special Summit will also reiterate shared commitment to uphold ASEAN Centrality and unity through the existing ASEAN-led mechanisms, as well as to foster mutual trust and confidence to maintain peace, stability and prosperity in the region.
Key agendas the Prime Minister will put forward include promotion of U.S.’s constructive role in the region for sustainable growth and recovery in the Next Normal, strong and sustainable economic rehabilitation, and sustainable development.
Dialogue relations between ASEAN and the U.S. started in 1977 and has been upgraded to strategic partnership in 2015. Both parties continue to forge cooperation that covers ASEAN’s three pillars, namely, political and security cooperation, economic cooperation, and socio-cultural cooperation, to advance regional development and growth

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/54491