รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM affirms Thailand’s willingness to be more aggressive in addressing climate change challenges at COP26


วันอังคารที่ 2 พฤศจิกายน 2564
พิมพ์
PM affirms Thailand’s willingness to be more aggressive in addressing climate change challenges at COP26
PM affirms Thailand’s willingness to be more aggressive in addressing climate change challenges at COP26
November 1, 2021, at 1600hrs (UK local time), at the Scottish Event Campus, Glasgow, United Kingdom, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha delivered a remarks at the World Leaders Summit of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Conference of the Parties (COP26). Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the statement as follows:
The Prime Minister underscored the utmost importance that Thailand attaches to the problem of climate change, and the country’s readiness to collaborate with all countries and sectors to reach the world’s common goal for the future of our children.
The main reason why he participated in the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris and became one of the first Parties that ratified the Paris Agreement is that the total Green House Gas (GHG) emission for Thailand constitutes 0.72% of the world’s total, but it has been one of the ten countries most severely affected by the atmospheric degradation. Thailand has since fulfilled every single pledge it made to the international community, fully, and unremittingly.
Thailand has set NAMA (Nationally Appropriate Mitigation Actions) goal under the framework of the UNFCCC to reduce the GHG from the energy and transport sectors by at least 7% by 2020. However, in 2019, the country was able to reduce the GHG by 17%, which is more than double the targeted level, and more than one year ahead of the schedule. Thailand was also among the first nations to submit the revised Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC) and the Long-Term Low GHG Emissions Development Strategy (LT-LEDS) to UNFCCC, and has put in place plans at both national and local levels.
The Prime Minister took the opportunity to express Thailand’s willingness to be more aggressive in addressing the climate change challenges in every way and every means possible, by aiming at reaching carbon neutrality in 2050, and Net Zero Emission in or before 2065. With the adequate, timely, and equitable support of technology transfer and cooperation, and most importantly, the availability of and access to ample green financing facilities, Thailand can increase our NDC to 40%, and reach the Net Zero Emissions in 2050. As Thailand will host the APEC Summit in 2022, the country has set the Bio-Circular-Green Economic Model or BCG as the main agenda of the meeting.
In closing, the Prime Minister called for every nation to care for and protect our world since there is no 'Plan B' for climate action as there is no 'Planet B’.
Following the COP26 World Leaders Summit, at 1900hrs (local time), the Prime Minister joined members of the UK Royal Family and the world leaders for the dinner reception at Glasgow's Kelvingrove Art Gallery and Museum.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/47717