รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand and Swiss Confederation seek to promote post-COVID cooperation


วันอังคารที่ 3 สิงหาคม 2564
พิมพ์
Thailand and Swiss Confederation seek to promote post-COVID cooperation
Thailand and Swiss Confederation seek to promote post-COVID cooperation
August 2, 2021, at 1500hrs, at the Government House, H.E. Mr. Ignazio Cassis, Vice President and Head of Federal Department of Foreign Affairs of the Swiss Confederation, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his visit to Asia, and an official visit to Thailand to celebrate the 90thanniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Thailand and Switzerland. Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed the Swiss Vice President and Head of Federal Department of Foreign Affairs who made the official visit as guest of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Thailand. This is a good opportunity for both sides to discuss the issues of mutual interest and tighten bilateral relations. The Prime Minister expressed hope for the two countries to maintain cooperation dynamism in both trade and investment, tourism, environment, and multilateral cooperation. He also thanked Switzerland for being Thailand’s good friend and for donating medical ventilators and COVID-19 antigen test kits in the Vice President’s visit to Thailand this time.
The Swiss Vice President and Head of Federal Department of Foreign Affairs expressed pleasure over the meeting with the Prime Minister, and affirmed close relations between the two countries. Thailand being the first country of his visit to Asia reflects priority Switzerland has over the country. In his official visit to Thailand, he has met with Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Public Health, and Minister of Natural Resources and Environment to discuss the issues of mutual interest.
On trade and investment cooperation, the Swiss Confederation ranks second as Thailand’s largest trade partner from Europe, whereas Thailand is the second largest trade partner of the Swiss Confederation in Southeast Asia. In addition, European Free Trade Association (EFTA) is the country’s important trade partner in both economic and national development aspects, with the trade value in 2020 at 10,445.34 million US$ or 2.4% of the country’s total trade value. In light of this, The Thai Government has placed importance on the negotiation of Thailand-EFTA FTA which would be a key mechanism to increase mutual trade and investment. The Prime Minister also extended an invitation for Switzerland to increase investment in Thailand in the fields of agriculture and biotechnology, health and medical technology, smart tools and robotics, digital technology, and creative industry, on which the Vice President affirmed the Swiss Government’s support, and expressed hope for Thailand’s promotion of economic environment and climate which is conducive to investment.
Thailand and the Swiss Confederation also came to terms on the cooperation to promote and revitalize tourism once the COVID-19 pandemic eases. The Prime Minister also introduced Phuket Sandbox scheme to receive foreign tourists to Thailand under strict public health safety. Swiss tourists are welcomed to visit Thailand under the scheme.
Both parties also discussed public health cooperation, and thanked each other’s country for taking good care of their citizens during the pandemic. The Prime Minister commended the Swiss Confederation for its effective management of vaccine. Thailand would like to seek cooperation with Switzerland on exchanging technology and expertise on mRNA vaccine production, and the setup of vaccine manufacturing plant in the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC). The Swiss Vice President and Head of Federal Department of Foreign Affairs expressed readiness to expand public health cooperation, and exchange information with Thailand on the control of COVID-19 and vaccine manufacturing.
After the meeting, the Prime Minister and the Swiss Vice President and Head of Federal Department of Foreign Affairs co-chaired the handover ceremony of 102 medical ventilators and 1.1 million Antigen Test kits. The Prime Minister thanked the Swiss Government’s kind donation which could enhance the efficiency of Thailand’s effort to tackle COVID-19.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/44389