รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM discloses success and outcomes of bilateral dialogues with various countries


วันอังคารที่ 31 พฤษภาคม 2565
พิมพ์
PM discloses success and outcomes of bilateral dialogues with various countries
PM discloses success and outcomes of bilateral dialogues with various countries
May 30, 2022, at 1322hrs, following the weekly cabinet meeting, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha disclosed about the outcomes of his trip to Japan last week, and advancement in reinforcing relations with various countries, e.g., Saudi Arabia, and the U.S., as well as the official visit to Thailand of Prime Minister of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic.
The Prime Minister mentioned the success of his bilateral meetings with the Prime Minister of Japan, governor of Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC), and Japan Business Federation’s president, which have engendered cooperation in various dimensions, and elevated Thailand- Japan relations to “comprehensive strategic partnership” for socio-economic recovery of the two countries. Promotion of sustainable prosperity and clean energy was agreed upon in line with the BCG economic model. Areas of cooperation include EV manufacturing, chemical products, smart medicine, smart agriculture, and smart farmer, among others. Thailand strives to become strengthened ASEAN hub with the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC) as key investment base. Executives of Japan’s large-scale industrial corporations are also scheduled to visit Thailand soon to explore investment opportunity and materialize their investments in the country.
The Prime Minister also had chances to dialogue with other countries to promote export, investment, and tourism, as well as various forms of cooperation. The opening of a new chapter in the relations between Thailand and Saudi Arabia has become tangibly successful. Saudia Airlines’ first direct flight to Thailand has been launched, and the export of Thai workers to Saudi Arabia has been agreed upon by both countries.
Thailand also saw its processed chicken products being exported to Saudi Arabia for the first time in 18 years, 6,000 tons of which will be exported this year, generating over 500 million Baht in revenue. The Thai Government has also reached a number of agreements with the U.S., especially in trade and investment. In 2023, U.S. Department of Commerce will hold its 2023 flagship trade mission – Trade Winds Business Forum – in Southeast Asia, which will feature Thailand as its regional hub.
The Prime Minister also mentioned resumption and elevation of the Thai-EU Comprehensive Partnership and Cooperation Agreement (PCA) to enhance Thailand’s competitiveness in trade and investment, science and technology, cyber security, public health, and climate action. A Joint Committee will be established for this purpose.
Prime Minister of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic will make an official visit to Thailand as guests of the Thai Government  during June 1-2, 2022. Key areas of bilateral cooperation will be discussed, including the elevation of bilateral relations to Strategic Partnership for Growth and Sustainable Development; trade and investment promotion; facilitation of cross-border travels and transportation to promote economic activities and livelihoods of peoples living along the border areas; energy cooperation, environmental management, and socio-cultural cooperation.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/55232