รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM calls on Phuket residents to take pride with “Phuket Sandbox”


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 1 กรกฎาคม 2564
พิมพ์
PM calls on Phuket residents to take pride with “Phuket Sandbox”
PM calls on Phuket residents to take pride with “Phuket Sandbox”
July 1, 2021, at 12.45 hrs, at the Royal City Phuket Hotel, Phuket, following the meeting to hand down the policies and follow up on the Phuket Sandbox scheme, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha disclosed about his field visit to Phuket that the preparedness of all concerned sectors, be it, public and business sectors, civil society, local administrations, and Tourism Authority of Thailand, as well as their close collaboration with CCSA and Ministry of Public Health has been satisfying and impressed him a great deal. With the incoming 11 flights and more in the next 14 days, the success of Phuket Sandbox would be a model for other tourist spots and areas to be reopened in the future.
Although strict screening measures for commuting in and out of Phuket, both by land, waterway, and by air, may discomfort the life of local people, he urged them to be proud and join forces in realizing this mission for the nation’s sake, and for the country to achieve the goal of complete reopening in 120 days. Moral support has been now sent to Phuket from Thai people across the country. All residents of the province are called on to strictly comply with the measures and not to sneak in or out of the province illegally.
According to the Prime Minister, 90% of Phuket businesses rely almost exclusively on tourism and services. If the Phuket Sandbox scheme becomes successful, provincial economy, both tourism and services, production and agricultural sectors, will be recovered. Nevertheless, safety of the people and tourists is also very important, and, thus, disease control measures must be strictly implemented. These measures will later be eased to accommodate normal activities and business operations, though at the risk everyone must be aware of.
The Prime Minister also stressed that the Government would not “leave anyone behind”, and strives to address the COVID-19 situation in parallel with economic rehabilitation, as well as to solve problems of all sectors. He called on everyone to provide moral support to doctors and medical personnel who have been sacrificing to protect the lives of all the Thai people.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/43365