รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The Prime Minister visited a high-value agricultural operation at Ban Tha Yim Mueang, Sakon Nakhon, and advised on adaptability to expand the quality in every factor.


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 16 มิถุนายน 2565
The Prime Minister visited a high-value agricultural operation at Ban Tha Yim Mueang, Sakon Nakhon, and advised on adaptability to expand the quality in every factor.
The Prime Minister visited a high-value agricultural operation at Ban Tha Yim Mueang, Sakon Nakhon, and advised on adaptability to expand the quality in every factor.
June 15, 2022, at 1400hrs, Ban Tha Yim, Mueang Sakon Nakhon, Sakon Nakhon Province, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that General Prayut Chan-o-cha, Prime Minister and Minister of Defense, together with delegations, visited the high-value agricultural operation in Sakon Nakhon province, where it has also set goals to cultivate agriculture and agro-industry with high-value innovations. In the field of livestock development, significant economic animal raising has been publicized, namely the four wonders of Phu Phan Center (Phu Phan Black Chicken, Phu Phan Pig, Phu Phan Cattle, and Phu Phan Black Rabbit), developed by the Phu Phan Development Study Center Royal Initiative Project and related agencies.
On this occasion, the Prime Minister greeted and encouraged beef cattle farmers and fed the cattle. In contrast, representatives of beef cattle farmers have requested support from academics in various fields, such as processing and developing meat quality so Thai meat can compete in international markets, and generate more income for farmers.
Prime Minister appreciated the cattle raisers and the Young Smart Farmers group, who learned how to adjust and adapt the way of cattle raising to suit and satisfy the crisis. It is an example of resilience and good management, especially in contributing quality food at a lower price than the market. As for supporting academics, the Prime Minister had assigned the provincial governor to cooperate with academics and advisors to cattle raisers to enrich the quality in every aspect. The Prime Minister emphasizes that everything in the present is constantly changing. Therefore, it’s important to follow up on the news and be aware of the changes in the world, and also apply the knowledge and suitable information to each area. And he also confirmed that the government is always ready to support and help farmers' well-being.
Then the Prime Minister and his delegation continued to Wat Pa Nak Nimit, Tambon Tong Kob, Amphoe Khok Si Suphan, and Wat Phra That Choeng Chum Worawihan, That Choeng Chum Subdistrict, Mueang Sakon Nakhon, Sakon Nakhon Province.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/55781