รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives to advance agricultural cooperation with Saudi Arabia in various areas


วันพุธที่ 8 มิถุนายน 2565
Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives to advance agricultural cooperation with Saudi Arabia in various areas
Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives to advance agricultural cooperation with Saudi Arabia in various areas
June 8, 2022, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha was pleased with the Rice Department’s plan to promote agro-product cooperation with Saudi Arabia, following the earlier visit of Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives’ delegation to the country to explore agricultural cooperation expansion.
The Prime Minister made an order for concerned agencies to continue mobilizing cooperation, and build upon outcomes of the official visit of the Thai delegation, comprising representatives from 28 government agencies and 57 representatives from 39 private companies, to Saudi Arabia in May. Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives strives to advance cooperation with the country in agriculture, irrigation, livestock and fishery, Halal products, agro industry, and agricultural technology.
In addition, executive committee of the Rice Department, in its 6/2022 meeting, deliberated the opportunity of Thai rice amidst the current global food security situation. Coupling with Saudi Arabia’s high demand for the import of 30 million tons of rice, this would be a good opportunity to mobilize the Prime Minister’s policy to promote cooperation of the two countries. Concerned agencies have started exploring the feasibility of basmati rice cultivation to further expand Thai rice export to Saudi Arabia, and leverage bargaining power of Thai rice in the global market.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Prime Minister thanked all sides for their integrated effort and mobilization of the policy for national interest. He was also pleased to be reported that 1.76 million tons of Thai rice has been exported in the first quarter of 2022 (January-March 2022), an increase of 48.5% and the highest in 5 years. Thailand expects to export more than 7 million tons of rice this year.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/55513