รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM takes field trip to Songkhla to observe flood prevention and meets with local people


วันอังคารที่ 26 เมษายน 2565
พิมพ์
PM takes field trip to Songkhla to observe flood prevention and meets with local people
PM takes field trip to Songkhla to observe flood prevention and meets with local people
April 25, 2022, at 1115hrs, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha, together with Minister of Tourism and Sports Phiphat Ratchakitprakarn, Minister of Labor Suchart Chomklin, and the delegation, traveled to Songkhla province to follow up and observe the implementation progress of H.M. King Rama IX’s royal initiative project on flood prevention in Hat Yai district through capacity enhancement of Phuminat Damri (Rama 1) Canal. Aside from flood mitigation in Hat Yai area, the canal area will also be used to contain water for use during the dry season.
At present, 92.10% of the project (phase 2) has been completed, i.e., construction of the 2nd water gate at the mouth of the canal which enables control of water volume into the canal; and widening the canal from 24 meters to 70 meters. Construction of reinforced concrete wall is also 90% completed. At this stage, the canal could drain water during the rainy season at the speed of 1,000 cubic meters/second. Once fully completed, up to 1,665 cubic meters of water volume will be drained per second.
The Prime Minister also emphasized preparedness, taking into account the lesson learned from the past flood situation, to effectively solve the problem, and mitigate people’s plight as much as possible. Water must also be properly managed to ensure sufficient water to be used during the dry season.
The Prime Minister and the delegation, then, stopped at Hat Yai’s Kimyong Market to meet with local sellers, and give them moral support to get through all the difficult situations. In turn, Kimyong Market sellers also gave back their moral support to the Prime Minister and wished for his healthiness.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/53908