รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Thailand and Cyprus to strengthen relations and cooperation in trade, investment and tourism


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 23 มิถุนายน 2565
​Thailand and Cyprus to strengthen relations and cooperation in trade, investment and tourism
​Thailand and Cyprus to strengthen relations and cooperation in trade, investment and tourism
June 22, 2022, at 11.30 hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Agis Loizou, Ambassador of the Republic of Cyprus to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed the Cyprus Ambassador who has traveled to Thailand from India to attend the Asia-Europe Foundation Board of Governors, which will be hosted by Thailand at the end of this week. The Asia-Europe Foundation Board of Governors is currently chaired by the Thai representative, and the meeting will also celebrate the 25th anniversary of Asia-Europe Foundation.
The Prime Minister marveled Cyprus Ambassador’s well-rounded experiences in the international relations. He has also played an important role in realizing Cyprus’ membership in the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB), of which Thailand is a founding member. With cordial relations between the two countries that have spanned over 4 decades, Thailand stands ready to strengthen Thailand- Cyprus cooperation in all areas, especially in trade and investment, for mutual interests.
The Cyprus Ambassador was pleased and honored to be here in Thailand, and affirmed Cyprus’ commitment to advance relations and cooperation with the country, especially people to people relations which is the key foundation to the comprehensive cooperation and international relations in other dimensions. He also commended Thailand’s effective management of the COVID-19 situation which has been executed in parallel with successful economic recovery. Cypress would be pleased to support Thailand at the international stage through various cooperation frameworks, and promote future cooperation.
Both parties also discussed other issues of mutual interest:
On trade and investment, Thailand and Cyprus agreed to cooperate and promote post COVID-19 economic recovery in potential fields. The Prime Minister mentioned Thailand’s BCG economic model and the development of the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC), as well as the Government’s policy to promote investment in energy, circular economy, green economy, and digital economy, on which Cyprus may leverage to expand its investment in other countries in the region. In addition, an increasing number of Thai investors have expressed interest in outward foreign investment, especially in the fields of tourism, hotels, Thai restaurants, spa, and Thai massage. The Cyprus Ambassador expressed readiness to promote trade and investment with the Thai counterparts, and exchange knowledge and experiences in the field of renewable energy which Cyprus has potential. He also proposed for the two countries to organize an investment summit with the private sector to support both domestic and regional investors.
With regard to tourism cooperation, Thailand has now eased its entry measures, and looked forward to welcoming more tourists from EU and Cyprus. The Ambassador of Cyprus was pleased to promote tourism between the two countries and to cooperate with Thailand in developing tourism industry.
On bilateral and multilateral cooperation, the Prime Minister proposed more exchange of visits between the two countries to further advance relations and cooperation. Both parties also congratulated negotiation finalization of the Comprehensive Partnership and Cooperation Agreement (PCA). The Prime Minister was of the view that related internal process should consequently be undertaken, and called for EU’s consideration on additional channels and opportunities for the implementation and expansion of cooperation at the regional level for mutual interests. He also endorsed elevation of ASEAN-EU to strategic partnership to promote constructive cooperation between the two regions.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/56042