รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM pleased with Thailand’s rank in UN’s 2022 Sustainable Development Report (SDR)


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 16 มิถุนายน 2565
​PM pleased with Thailand’s rank in UN’s 2022 Sustainable Development Report (SDR)
​PM pleased with Thailand’s rank in UN’s 2022 Sustainable Development Report (SDR)
June 16, 2022, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha acknowledged the 2022 Sustainable Development Report (SDR), according to which Thailand ranks 44th out of 163 countries. Region wise, the country ranks 3rd in Asia, behind Japan (19th) and South Korea (27th), and is first among the Southeast Asian countries for 5 straight years.
The Prime Minister thanked all concerned sectors and agencies for having mobilized SDGs in a tangible manner. The public sector, in particular, has constantly worked together with the private sector and civil society to integrate SDGs in the national-level development goals through synergizing the 20-Year National Strategy, and the 12th and 13th National Economic and Social Development Plans, which has led to the tangible success in Thailand’s overall score and rank in the SDR throughout these years.
The 2022 Sustainable Development Report and SDG Index is compiled by Sustainable Development Solutions Network (SDSN) under the concept framework “From Crisis to Sustainable Development: the SDGs as Roadmap to 2030 and Beyond”. According to the Government Spokesperson, the Prime Minister has committed to promote the development of human capital, economy, environment, peace, and justice, as well as development partnership in accordance with the 17 SDGs. Even though Thailand’s rank drops by one notch from 43rd in 2021 to 44th in 2022, the country remains among the top-ranked countries in the region.
The Government’s endeavor, to overcome obstacles and challenges to create opportunities and empower the Thai people, is in line with the 17 SDGs. The Government Spokesperson also affirmed the Government’s commitment to propel these goals, not only to achieve the SDG index, but also to promote the country’s prosperity and sustainability for everyone’s interest.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/55780