รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand-Pakistan agree to expedite PATHFTA negotiation


วันจันทร์ที่ 2 สิงหาคม 2564
พิมพ์
Thailand-Pakistan agree to expedite PATHFTA negotiation
Thailand-Pakistan agree to expedite PATHFTA negotiation
July 29, 2021, at 15.30 hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Asim Iftikhar Ahmad, Ambassador of Islamic Republic of Pakistan to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha cha on occasion of his completion of tenure. Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister thanked the Ambassador for his active role in promoting relations and cooperation between Thailand and Pakistan in various dimensions throughout his tenure, and was pleased with the 70th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the two countries this year. He affirmed Thailand’s commitment to further tighten relations with Pakistan, especially on trade and investment.
The Pakistani Ambassador expressed appreciation toward the Thai Government’s support. Throughout the course of his tenure, relations and cooperation have progressed in several areas, such as trade, education, tourism and culture, among others. He also conveyed well wishes of Pakistani President and Prime Minister to the Thai Prime Minister, and expressed confidence on the Thai Government’s effective administration of COVID-19 situation and Thailand’s public health efficiency.
Both parties agreed to expedite free trade agreement negotiation between Thailand and Pakistan (PATHFTA) for mutual interests. With the strategic location of both countries, the Prime Minister was of the view that Thailand and Pakistan could forge a win-win cooperation in being each other’s logistics hub. The Thai Government stands ready to promote Thai private sector investment in Pakistan. The Pakistani Ambassador also commits to support Thai investment in his country as Thailand is Pakistan’s important trade partner in the Southeast Asian region.
On education, both parties were pleased with educational cooperation in the field of science and technology which Pakistan has expertise. Thailand also agreed to share experiences on distance learning, vocational education, smart farming, and food processing.
Both parties congratulated the progress of people-to-people relations in culture and tourism, especially in Buddhist affairs, the two countries’ shared religion. The Prime Minister also introduced Phuket Sandbox scheme to receive foreign tourists to Thailand under strict public health safety, which could be a pilot scheme for other provinces in Thailand, and for other countrie

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/44343