รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM chairs 2/2022 meeting of National Committee on Preparation of APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting and Related Meetings


วันจันทร์ที่ 8 สิงหาคม 2565
PM chairs 2/2022 meeting of National Committee on Preparation of APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting and Related Meetings
PM chairs 2/2022 meeting of National Committee on Preparation of APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting and Related Meetings
August 8, 2022, at 0930hrs, at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha presided over the 2/2022 meeting of the National Committee on the Preparation of the APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting and Related Meetings in 2022, with the participation of the committee members and representatives from concerned agencies. The meeting was held via a teleconference (Zoom program).
The Prime Minister thanked all concerned agencies for supporting and successfully organizing various meetings under the APEC framework which fitted the country’s honor as APEC host. The meeting is aimed to follow up on the preparation progress for the APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting to be held in the next 4 months.
The Prime Minister instructed relevant agencies to undertake publicities in order to promote public awareness on the importance of Thailand’s hosting of APEC 2022. Priorities that Thailand will put forward at the meeting are the issues that the Thai Government has placed great importance on and continued to drive forward, i.e., post-COVID-19 economic recovery, facilitation of trade and investment, balanced climate actions, and the BCG economic model.
According to the Deputy Government Spokesperson Traisuree Taisaranakul, the meeting approved special holidays for Bangkok and vicinities during the week of the APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting on November 16-18, 2022 (Wed-Fri). This will be the same practice as Thailand’s hosting of the ASEAN Summit to alleviate the traffic, facilitate participants’ travel, and ensure safety and security of the APEC leaders. The APEC 2022 special holidays will later be proposed to the cabinet for final approval. Agencies that need to provide services to the public, such as hospitals, courts, banks, may adjust their own holidays appropriately. Production of commemorative coins for Thailand’s hosting of the APEC 2022 was also approved to promote public awareness and participation. Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ministry of Finance are ordered to proceed accordingly.
The meeting also acknowledged work progress of related sub-committees, while relevant agencies reported on their readiness to host APEC ministerial meetings on tourism, public health, food security, and forestry in August 2022. Preparation progress for other related ministerial meetings ahead of the APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting was also reported, i.e., APEC SME Ministerial Meeting, Women and the Economy Forum (WEF), to be held in September, Finance Ministers' Meeting in October, and other meetings, such as, ABAC – Leaders’ Dialogue and APEC CEO Summit in November.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/57787