รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM hands over water management policy and observes water situation in Chainat’s Chao Phraya Dam


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 16 กันยายน 2564
พิมพ์
PM hands over water management policy and observes water situation in Chainat’s Chao Phraya Dam
PM hands over water management policy and observes water situation in Chainat’s Chao Phraya Dam
September 15, 2021, at 14.30hrs, at the 12th Irrigation Office, Sapphaya district, Chainat province, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha, together with Minister of Interior Gen. Anupong Paojinda, and Minister Attached to the Prime Minister’s Office Anucha Nakhasai, had a meeting with concerned agencies to discuss water situation in Chao Phraya Dam, and water management in the Chao Phraya River basin.
The Prime Minister was reported on the total water discharge capacity of Chao Phraya Dam, which is at 625 cubic meters per second (western part of the Dam: 465 cubic meters per second, and eastern part: 160 cubic meters per second). Despite the forecast of an increasing rainfall in September, the Dam will still be able to operate at its full capacity in discharging excessive water. In Chainat province, there are altogether 54 plans/projects implemented under the water management integrative plan, worth 1,334.84 million Baht. Approximate 92,694 rai of irrigated land and 2,948 households will be benefited from the plans/projects, and 8,000 rai of land will be prevented from flooding under these plans/projects.
According to the Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana, the Prime Minister conveyed the cabinet’s concern over the people’s wellbeing, and stated that the Government stood ready to take into consideration all the complaints and problems, and solve them in an integrative manner. Lessons learned in the past will be taken as guideline for inclusive water management to tackle both flood and drought. The Prime Minister has also intended to take the field trips to all areas possible to listen directly to the people.
At the meeting, the Prime Minister instructed local agencies and MPs to learn from the past experiences, and prepare an incident action plan, while raising awareness of the people. Stream obstructions must be cleared to ensure efficient water drainage without widely affecting the economic areas. Water storage planning is also important for non-irrigation farming in the dry season.
The Prime Minister also emphasized the Government’s intent to address people’s plights and problems, and to support plans/projects which are truly benefit the people. After the meeting, the Prime Minister and delegation observed the water situation in Chao Phraya Dam for the planning of flood prevention in the Lower Chao Phraya River basin.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/45880