รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM pleased with Fitch’s BBB+ for Sovereign Credit Rating on Thailand


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 8 กรกฎาคม 2564
พิมพ์
PM pleased with Fitch’s BBB+ for Sovereign Credit Rating on Thailand
PM pleased with Fitch’s BBB+ for Sovereign Credit Rating on Thailand
Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that Fitch Ratings, a credit rating agency that indicates the country’s viability of investments, has reported in June 2021 that the Thailand’s Sovereign Credit Rating is at BBB+. Moreover, Fitch maintained Thailand with a Stable Outlook—reflecting foreign investors’ confidence and strong foundation of the Thai economy.
Accordingly, indicators of the Fitch Ratings derived from
1. Public Finance: reflects the strength of the prudential management in the financial sector and disciplined practice of State Fiscal and Financial Disciplines Act 2018, despite the increased public debt due to higher level of loans for remedial measures from COVID-19.
2. External Finance: the Current Account of Thailand is at a surplus, while the foreign reserve is high. This level is sufficient to cover 10.8 months of government spending, still in excess of the 'BBB+' peers of 9.3 months. The current account is also expected to continue holding a surplus of 0.5 percent of the GDP in 2021 and expects to expand further as tourism recovers.
Additionally, Fitch projected that Thai government is able to mitigate the risks associated with the large increase in public debt due to the government's sound debt management strategy, exemplified by a long average maturity on government securities of 9.5 years. Fitch also expressed confidence that Thai economy in the second quarter will begin to recover as exports boost along with higher disbursement for public investments accelerate. Plus, Fitch predicted that the Thai economy will rise to 4.2 percent in 2022 due to the growth of external demands, government stimulus measures, and gradual return of tourism inflows.
“The government is pleased with the ratings and have suggested short and long term economic stimulus measures, in line with accelerating the country's mass vaccine rollout.” Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri stated.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/43576