รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM to follow up on preparation of Phuket Sandbox


วันพุธที่ 30 มิถุนายน 2564
พิมพ์
PM to follow up on preparation of Phuket Sandbox
PM to follow up on preparation of Phuket Sandbox
June 30, 2021, Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha is scheduled to take a field visit to Phuket to observe the province’s commuter screening system, and chair a meeting with provincial administrations and local private sector on the launching preparation of “Phuket Sandbox” scheme at Royal Phuket City Hotel. He will also chair the opening of “Hug Thai Hug Phuket” under the “Hug Thai” scheme at Central Phuket Department Store, and visit Sirinat National Park before returning to Bangkok the same day.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Prime Minister’s visit would be a major move to stimulate and rehabilitate Thai economy, especially tourism and other related industries as the country’s key economic and social driving force, in the New Normal way or “safe tourism”. The Thai Government, through Tourism Authority of Thailand, has expected approx. 100,000 foreign tourists to come to Thailand during the third quarter (July – September 2021) under the Phuket Sandbox scheme, which should generate the estimated revenue of 8.9 billion Baht. According to the bookings made with 6 airlines for July 2021, 11,894 tourists (8,281 departures, and 3,613 arrivals) will be traveling under the Phuket Sandbox scheme via 426 flights (approx. 13 flights/day).
Nevertheless, Center for COVID-19 Situation Administration (CCSA) has prepared a contingency plan to delay or cancel Phuket Sandbox if the situation changes, that is, there are over 90 cases of newly-infected patients/week scattered throughout the province’s 3 districts and over 3 disease clusters in over 6 sub-districts, or an occurrence of untraceable super spreads, or in the case of 80% or more of the province’s bed occupancy rateunder the uncontrollable super spread situation.
Measures to enter Thailand under the Phuket Sandbox are as follows:
1. Travelers must travel from countries/regions approved by the Centre for COVID-19 Situation Administration (CCSA), and must have been in the said countries for no less than 21 days before their travel date. They must also present a Certificate of Entry (COE), and a certificate of vaccination against COVID-19 with a vaccine approved by the MoPH or the World Health Organization (WHO) no less than 14 days before their travel date. Travelers under 6years of age, travelling with their parents or guardians, do not have to present a medical certificate with a laboratory result by an RT-PRC method indicating that COVID-19 is not detected no more than 72 hours before their travel date.Copy of an insurance policy in English must also presented,covering healthcare and treatment expenses for COVID-19 per applicant for the whole duration in Thailand with coverage clearly identified as no less than US$100,000.
2. They are required to undergo 3 COVID-19 tests (RT-PCR method) at own expense: 1) upon arrival, 2) on Day 6 or 7,and 3) on Day 12 or 13. Travelers must stay at an SHA+ hotel in Phuket for 14 nights before they are free to go anywhere in Thailand on condition that their COVID-19 test result is negative, and that the applications “Thailand Plus” and “Tracing Application : Morchana” are installed.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/43309