รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM receives Pfizer vaccines donated by France


วันจันทร์ที่ 4 เมษายน 2565
PM receives Pfizer vaccines donated by France
PM receives Pfizer vaccines donated by France
April 4, 2022, at 11.00 hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha, together with Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Public Health Anutin Charnvirakul, received COVID-19 vaccines (Pfizer) from the Republic of France, which was presented by H.E. Mr. Thierry Mathou, Ambassador of the Republic of France to Thailand, as the representative of the French Government. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist as follows:
The Prime Minister thanked the French Government for the donation of 3,268,620 doses of Pfizer vaccines, and the French Ambassador who has played a crucial role in promoting close relations and cooperation between Thailand and France. He also expressed pleasure to continue to strengthen cooperation with the French Government in all dimensions, including public health, in a bid to overcome the COVID-19 situation together, and affirmed Thailand’s commitment to equitably distribute the donated vaccines to the people. It is also the country’s intent to donate AstraZeneca vaccines to other countries, i.e., Thailand’s neighbors, and the countries in South Asia and Africa, to ensure fair access of vaccines to all.
The French Ambassador expressed pleasure and honor to present the donated vaccines to the Prime Minister. This gesture reflects long-standing friendship, and the two countries could further exchange experience and knowledge on COVID-19 situation administration and other public health issues. He would be pleased to continue to forge bilateral relations between the two countries, especially an exchange of visits and the elevation to strategic partnership, as well as multilateral cooperation under the ASEAN-France framework, as the latter is one of ASEAN’s development partners.
The two parties also discussed other issues of mutual interest:
On bilateral cooperation, both the Prime Minister and the French Ambassador were pleased with the Roadmap for Thai-French Relations (2022-2025), signed in Paris during the Ministerial Forum for Cooperation in the Indo-Pacific.
The Prime Minister expressed confidence that endeavors under the Roadmap will soon be tangibly executed on the basis of mutual interest for post-COVID-19 socio-economic rehabilitation. The French Ambassador also agreed to upgrade mutual relations to strategic partnership through the signing of Partnership and Cooperation Agreement (PCA).
On multilateral cooperation, the French Ambassador mentioned the success of 2022’s first meeting of the European Council under France’s presidency. The country has placed importance on the Indo-Pacific region, and stands ready to increase cooperation with ASEAN. The Prime Minister was confident that EU’s potentiality would be enhanced under France’s presidency. Thailand commits to expand comprehensive cooperation with EU, especially in sustainable post-COVID-19 socio-economic recovery.
The two parties also exchanged views and constructively discussed Russia-Ukraine situation.
According to the Government Spokesperson, there are two types of vaccines donated by France: 1) 400,140 doses of Pfizer vaccines and vaccination equipment, and 2) 2,868,480 doses of ready to Use (RTU) type of Pfizer vaccines.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/53289