รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM: Govt attaches equal importance on public health and economic recovery


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 2 กันยายน 2564
พิมพ์
​PM: Govt attaches equal importance on public health and economic recovery
​PM: Govt attaches equal importance on public health and economic recovery
Sep 1, 2021, at 14.05 hrs, at the censure debate against individual ministers held during the 1st annual ordinary session (3rd Year) of the House of Representatives, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha has made clarification on various issues that were raised during the debate. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist as follows:
1.Agro production: The Government’s policy is to promote alternative cropping and reduce production cost. It also implements rice insurance scheme within the set budget framework, and continues with its endeavor to suppress IUU Fishing.
2.COVID-19 vaccine: The Government has started vaccine acquisition process since early 2020. The COVID-19 vaccine is for emergency use, and importing them will also depend on vaccine manufacturers and the countries of origin. The Government strives to take care and facilitate COVID-19 patients, especially those who want to return home, through setting up of field hospitals, home isolation and community isolation.
3.Remedy measures: The Government carries out large-scale monetary and fiscal policy in an extremely cautious manner to remedy and maintain economic stability. As of now, over 5.1 million debtors in the people sector and 890,000 debtors in the business sector have been assisted, with the total debt amount of over 1.91 trillion Baht, and 1.94 trillion Baht respectively. The Government also acquired 1-trillion Baht loan for economic and social problem solving, remedy, and rehabilitation. Additional central budget has also been allocated to local administrations.
4.Economic overview: According to the World Bank’s report, social assistance measures provided by the Thai Government in 2020 account for 3.2% of GDP, more than tripling the 0.8% figure of 2019. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) also reported that Thailand ranks 2nd among the emerging economies for the highest fiscal packages used in addressing COVID-19 (11.4% of GDP), with approximately 850 billion Baht given to over 42.3 million people.
5. COVID-19: Thailand’s infection rate per population is at the average of 1.77%, which is lower than the world’s average of 2.97%, while mortality rate is at the average of 0.95%, also lower that the world’s average of 2.07%. The Government strives to reduce the numbers, especially the mortality, to nil.
According to the Prime Minister, the Government commits to put utmost effort in addressing the problems of Thai people. National budget will be optimized for best interest of the country and people. Subsidies directly given to the people prove that the Government has placed great importance on the people’s bread and butter concern.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/45463