รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​​New Narcotics Act, removing Kratom from list of controlled narcotics, to take effect on August 24


วันจันทร์ที่ 23 สิงหาคม 2564
พิมพ์
​​New Narcotics Act, removing Kratom from list of controlled narcotics, to take effect on August 24
​​New Narcotics Act, removing Kratom from list of controlled narcotics, to take effect on August 24
August 19, 2021, Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that Thailand’s Narcotics Act (No. 8), B.E. 2564 will take effect on August 24, 2021. According to the Bill, Mitragyna speciosa, commonly known as "kratom”, has been removed from the list of controlled narcotics, which means the general public will be allowed to consume and sell kratom legally without restrictions, and 1,038 convicted prisoners, as well as suspects and defendants at different legal stages, will be released and decriminalized.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Government will be benefited from the removal of kratom from the list of controlled narcotics, as related legal expenses of both the public sector and defendants/suspects is expected to reduce by 1,691,287,000 Baht.
Minister of Justice Somsak Thepsutin has also instructed Office of The Narcotics Control Board to ensure common understanding of the public that although planting, consuming, selling, and buying kratom are legally allowed, mixing kratom with other narcotic ingredients to produce drug cocktails, such as 4x100, remains illegal. Industrial import or export also requires advance approval.
The Government Spokesperson added that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha underscored anti-narcotics as an urgent agenda. Focus should be made on suppression, arrest, and criminal punishment of drug dealers and network, as well as drug confiscation, in parallel with proper treatment and rehabilitation of the drug addicts. He also emphasized the need to create awareness and immunity among the risk groups of all ages, including the informal workers.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/44913