รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM commends “Thailand Community Big Data (TCD)” platform implemented under University-to-Tambon (U2T) program


วันอังคารที่ 22 กุมภาพันธ์ 2565
พิมพ์
PM commends “Thailand Community Big Data (TCD)” platform implemented under University-to-Tambon (U2T) program
PM commends “Thailand Community Big Data (TCD)” platform implemented under University-to-Tambon (U2T) program
Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that on February 22, 2022, at 0845 hrs, at the Inner Santi Maitri Building, Government House, prior to the weekly cabinet meeting, Minister of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation Anek Laothamatas, together with the Ministry's permanent secretary Prof. Sirirurg Songsivilai and executives, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha to present and demonstrate the operation of Thailand Community Big Data (TCD) platform which is implemented under the University-to-Tambon (U2T) program.
TCD collects data from communities across the country, including the database related to the BCG economy, e.g., local flora and fauna, agricultural data, local wisdoms, etc., and is linked with related database of concerned public agencies, such as TPMAP.
The Prime Minister took the opportunity to try searching some sample data, and commended accuracy of the TCD. Government agencies could utilize TCD data for their policy planning and management for utmost interest of the local people. He also urged universities to continue to work with local communities under the U2T program in order to achieve sustainable development and the program’s goals. The Government stands ready to provide full support.
Last year, TCD has compiled data from 3,000 Tambon (sub-districts), accounting for 50% of the whole country. The community big data may be revised anytime through the linkage with the CDB application and AI, and will be a key to the Government’s efficient implementation of BCG economy, such as in biodiversity resource planning.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/51812