รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM delivers statement at 27th Nikkei Forum


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 26 พฤษภาคม 2565
พิมพ์
PM delivers statement at 27th Nikkei Forum
PM delivers statement at 27th Nikkei Forum
May 26, 2022, at 1300hrs (JST), at the Imperial Hotel, Tokyo, Japan, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha delivered a statement at the 27th International Conference on the Future of Asia (Nikkei Forum). His session was moderated by Mr. Takahashi Toru, Senior Staff Writer, Nikkei Inc. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the Prime Minister’s statement as follows:
The Prime Minister pleased that Malaysian Prime Minister has joined on Thai Prime Minister session and thanked everyone for the warm welcome, and shared the 4 reasons why he decided to come to Tokyo and join the Nikkei Forum in person:
1) First, Thailand has always considered Japan to be a true friend. Prime Minister Kishida’s official visit to the country earlier this month, as well as to other ASEAN countries, reverberates positively across the Southeast Asian region. It is especially important for Thailand, as both countries commemorate 135 years of diplomatic relations.
2) Second, the two countries have very close economic relations. Japan is Thailand’s second largest trading partner. Economic ties are growing stronger every day, especially through JTEPA since 2007 and AJCEP the year after. In 2021 alone, Thailand-Japan trade totaled over 60 billion US dollars. Most importantly, Japan remains Thailand’s long-standing leading foreign investor, contributing to almost 30 per cent of the total foreign direct investment (FDI) for Thailand last year. Moreover, with RCEP - the world’s largest mega trade deal to date - tremendous trade growth among RCEP member countries has been witnessed.
The Prime Minister expressed appreciation to the Japanese Government, business owners and investors for having trust and confidence in Thailand. More investment from Japan, especially in the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC), are welcomed. At the same time, a significant increase in Thailand’s direct investment in Japan has also been witnessed in the past decade, currently ranking second or third among ASEAN countries. The Prime Minister hoped to see a steady increase in Thailand’s FDI shares in Japan in the coming years, especially in the renewable energy sector, and expressed confidence that Japan will provide the support that Thai investors need including by maintaining a favorable investment climate for them.
3) Third, Thailand is hosting APEC this year, of which Japan is an active member. The country’s APEC host year also coincides with Cambodia’s ASEAN Chairmanship, and Indonesia’s G20 Presidency. In light of this unique opportunity, the three Chairs are determined to work with all our partners and stakeholders to ensure a spirit of cooperation as we in Southeast Asia continue to strengthen ASEAN centrality, credibility and relevance in maintaining peace and stability in our regional and global endeavors. As the current Country Coordinator for ASEAN-Japan Dialogue Relations, Thailand stands ready to work with Japan and ASEAN member countries to further strengthen strategic partnership, putting people at the center, especially as ASEAN and Japan will be commemorating the 50th anniversary of relations next year.
4) Finally, The world is in such extraordinary times. The Prime Minister’s attendance at the event gave him the opportunity not only to share Thailand’s insight, but also to listen to and exchange valuable views with all stakeholders, especially the private sector.
As to what Asia’s role could be when gaps are growing wider in every aspect, the Prime Minister emphasized that Asia must be resilient. Asia must be a strong advocate for sustainability. Asia must strive to become a more inclusive society. The past two years have taught everyone that resilience to any disruption is fundamental to sustain oneself. Growth, once achieved, means little if it cannot be sustained, especially in today’s context when growth is so brittle. He expressed strong belief that economic recovery must go hand in hand with the effort to balance all things and achieve sustainability.
The Prime Minister also shared three things Thailand believes Asia can do collectively to transcend the status quo, while ensuring peace and security in the region:
First, we must regenerate economic growth by keeping markets open and inclusive. Sustainable economic growth is only possible when we are able to adapt to any disruptions and uncertainties in a timely manner and when the regional and global supply chains are both strong and resilient and always functioning. In light of this, we must continue to support the rules-based multilateral trading system, with the WTO at its core, and to safeguard a free, fair, open, non-discriminatory, transparent, inclusive and predictable trade and investment environment.
Thailand will continue to enhance and improve the business environment to facilitate trade and investment to further increase competitiveness. The country will ensure an environment that is stable, predictable, innovative and enabling for business owners and investors.
Thailand recognizes the need to prepare the workforce and infrastructure that corresponds to the fast-evolving financial and economic landscape, and is upgrading and expanding rails and airports across the country. Work is also being done to improve communications network and digital infrastructure, including high-speed internet and cloud computing, promote the development of smart cities, and build a high-skilled digital workforce. Many global cloud computing companies are investing heavily in building data centers in Thailand, making the country one of the most attractive regional hubs for cloud computing services. The Prime Minister also thanked Japan for the close cooperation and the assistance it provides in this regard.
Thailand takes pride in the banking system, which is one of the most advanced, as it is one of the first countries to adopt e-payment system called “PromptPay”, where individuals and businesses can transfer money via mobile applications at zero cost. The PromptPay-PayNow payment linkage between Thailand and Singapore is the world’s first real-time cross-border transfer service, and Thailand has also launched similar linkages with Japan, as well as Cambodia, Malaysia, and Indonesia. The Prime Minister hoped to link Thailand’s digital payment system with more countries, especially in APEC, as part of the country’s goal to achieve digital connectivity.
Second, we must continue to lend support to the multilateral system because no country can tackle these challenges alone. The Prime Minister affirmed Thailand’s staunch advocacy to the multilateral system, and the country’s readiness to support multilateralism and drive multilateral cooperation to the greatest extent possible.
APEC is another forum where Thailand can show support in this regard. As host of APEC 2022, Thailand is honored to be steering the work of APEC this year. The Prime Minister reaffirmed once again the country’s unwavering commitment to ensuring that APEC continues to deliver results and to securing a meaningful and concrete outcome for APEC 2022, for the benefit of all the people of the Asia-Pacific. Under the theme “Open. Connect. Balance.”, Thailand aims to promote trade and investment that is open to all opportunities, to reconnect the region in all dimensions, and to drive APEC towards a balanced, inclusive, and sustainable post-COVID-19 growth.
Under the first priority: Open to all opportunities, Thailand is encouraging APEC to further explore and have a refreshed conversation on the Free Trade Area of the Asia-Pacific (FTAAP), through the post-COVID-19 perspective, while taking into account new trade and investment issues such as the digital economy and the environment, among others. Most importantly, liberalization and facilitation of trade and investment, eliminating barriers to trade and deepening economic integration continue to be the heart of APEC.
Under the second priority: Connect in all dimensions, Thailand is aiming to reconnect the APEC region in all dimensions. The APEC Safe Passage Task Force, whose main work is to find ways to safely and seamlessly resume cross-border travels, has been established. Initiatives undertaken aim to address issues relating to, among other things, the interoperability of vaccine certificates, and the expansion of the APEC Business Travel Cards.
Under the third priority: Balance in all aspects, Thailand places great importance on achieving sustainable and inclusive growth. One important goal for Thailand is also to ensure that MSMEs, women-led and smaller businesses, who form foundation of the economy, have greater market and financial access, so that they can increase their competitiveness and have the chance to flourish. Thailand has also proposed the adoption of the APEC Leaders’ statement on the Bangkok Goals on BCG Economy, which will be a comprehensive document that sets the goals and targets for APEC’s long-term work on sustainability, namely on climate change mitigation and adaptation, sustainable trade and investment, and sustainable management of resources. These align closely with Japan’s Green Growth. The Prime Minister also thanked Japan for fully supporting Thailand’s agenda on the BCG.
Third, Thailand believes that economic recovery must go hand in hand with sustainability. The Prime Minister took this opportunity to invite businesses to come on board in this endeavor as they are the true driver of sustainability who can make real change on the ground.
Thailand is transitioning to clean energy to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050 and net zero gas emission in or before 2065. In particular, the country has commenced its transition into EV industry and is building its EV ecosystem. “Mission No Emission” or MINE (EV) Smart Ferries now ply the Chao Phraya River as the country works to decarbonize river mass transit. Thailand hopes to be one of the world’s biggest EV production bases in the near future, and looks forward to cooperating with Japan in this and other areas.
According to the Prime Minister, Asia is a region that is not only vast and vibrant, but also resilient and resourceful, much potential of which is still untapped. Asia’s strength is solidarity and to grow together, leaving no one behind. Asia is a land of hope. Asia is a place of opportunities, and Thailand is doing its part at all levels.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/55033