รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM: Thailand is advancing into the “Next Normal” by “reinventing Thailand”


วันพุธที่ 27 ตุลาคม 2564
พิมพ์
PM: Thailand is advancing into the “Next Normal” by “reinventing Thailand”
PM: Thailand is advancing into the “Next Normal” by “reinventing Thailand”
October 27, 2021, at 1800hrs, at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha attended and deliver an intervention at the 16th East Asia Summit via a videoconference. Attending the Summit were, leaders and representative of the ASEAN member states, Australia, China, India, Japan, Republic of Korea, New Zealand, Russia, and the U.S., as well as Director-Generals of the World Health Organization and World Trade Organizations. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of his intervention as follows:
According to the Prime Minister, every country is now facing numerous common challenges, including climate change, environmental degradation, natural disasters, digital and technological transformation and cybersecurity. Empathy, mutual understanding, partnership and solidarity are important keys to unlocking the door to our survival in a sustainable manner. Thailand envisages a crucial opportunity for the EAS, as a Leaders-led strategic forum for dialogue amongst countries, to synergize our numerous potentials, strengths and excellences to manage those common challenges successfully. However, EAS needs a paradigm shift from focusing on competition which may bring about a temporary triumph, to aiming towards cooperation to create lasting victory for all. Mutually beneficial and people-centered cooperation may be built upon with a view to strengthening human security, lay the foundation, and to set the direction towards a comprehensive and sustainable socio-economic recovery.
COVID-19 reminds all of us that public health security is the foremost basic goal of people’s livelihoods. Therefore, equitable access to and rapid distribution of vaccines, R&D on anti-viral vaccines and medicines, as well as enhancing medical and public health capacity to respond to current and future public health challenges through exchanges of related knowledge, skills, technology and innovation, are areas of cooperation to which should be attached utmost importance. Meanwhile, the mental health of our people across all groups also needs to be properly looked after. The Prime Minister expressed pleasure to jointly adopt the EAS Leaders’ Statement on Mental Health Cooperation, and affirmed Thailand’s readiness to extend full cooperation to implement this Leaders’ Statement towards tangible outcomes.
Another top priority is sustainable socio-economic recovery and building long-term resilience. Thailand stands ready to work with the EAS Participating Countries in implementing the ASEAN Comprehensive Recovery Framework (ACRF) and other economic agreements towards concrete outcomes. In addition, Thailand is committed to leveraging innovation and technology with a view to promoting businesses and enhancing supply chain connectivity. Moreover, the country is also ready to work towards restoring people’s mobility and tourism by means of implementing the EAS Leaders’ Statement on Economic Growth through Tourism Recovery, which Thailand is a co-sponsor.
Thailand believes that sustainable recovery requires creating of a “balance of things”. We are therefore pleased to work with every country in implementing the EAS Leaders Statement on Sustainable Recovery. Thailand is committed to advancing our proactive role in promoting sustainability in all dimensions, including the utilization of the BCG Economy Model. In addition, we stand ready to make constructive contributions towards enhancing international cooperation on global challenges such as environmental protection, addressing climate change and natural disaster management.
According to the Prime Minister, maintaining peace and stability in the region has been one of the main objectives since the establishment of ASEAN and the underlying factor for shared prosperity. EAS is the main mechanism which opens up opportunities for us to have frank and constructive dialogue and explore win-all cooperation, while upholding ASEAN centrality in the ASEAN-centered regional architecture. Thailand always attaches importance to the peaceful resolution of disputes in the South China Sea, and will continue the constructive role in promoting cooperation based on the 3M principles, namely, mutual trust, mutual respect, and mutual benefit. The country also supports lasting peace in the Korean Peninsula, and hopes to see progress in dialogue and cooperation towards a denuclearized Korean Peninsula.
Thailand also reiterates our position based on the obligations under regional instruments such as TAC, ZOPFAN and SEANWFZ, and encourages all parties to respect and fulfill the obligations under the nuclear-related international agreements, including the NPT. The country does not wish to see conflicts and confrontation among Thailand’s and ASEAN’s friends, and sincerely believes that every country in the world does share the common fundamental goal in making their country and this world peaceful and tranquil, as well as helping the people to be happy and living in harmony as much as possible.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/47499