รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM delivers remarks at Joint Press Conference with Prime Minister of Lao PDR


วันพุธที่ 1 มิถุนายน 2565
พิมพ์
PM delivers remarks at Joint Press Conference with Prime Minister of Lao PDR
PM delivers remarks at Joint Press Conference with Prime Minister of Lao PDR
June 1, 2022, at 1845hrs, at the Inner Santi Maitri Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha delivered a remarks at the Joint Press Conference with H.E. Mr. Phankham Viphavanh, Prime Minister of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic on occasion of the latter’s official visit to Thailand as guest of the Thai Government. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure to welcome H.E. Mr. Phankham Viphavanh, Prime Minister of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, on his first official visit to Thailand after the assumption of his premiership, and congratulated him for the honorary doctorate degree in political science presented to him by the Maejo University this morning.
This official visit of Prime Minister Phankham was very meaningful to both countries, as Thailand and Lao PDR agreed to open a new chapter of relations by elevating our cooperation to a “Strategic Partnership for Growth and Sustainable Development.”
The two Prime Ministers also witnessed the signing of “the Five-Year Action Plan on Thai – Lao Strategic Partnership for Growth and Sustainable Development (2022 – 2026), the exchange of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Government of the Lao PDR regarding Cooperation on the Development of Electrical Energy in the Lao PDR 2022 and the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Government of the Lao PDR on Thai - Lao Arboretum Project. The Prime Minister also expressed the Thai Government’s support on the establishment of Thai - Lao Friendship Centre for Social Development to provide one stop service and support for victims of human trafficking in Xaythany District, Vientiane Capital.
The two Prime Ministers had an extensive discussion on a broad range of issues covering all dimensions of Thai-Lao relations in an atmosphere of friendship, which will benefit the people of both countries. Key outcomes are as follows:
On economic cooperation, First, Thailand and the Lao PDR agreed to work closely to revive the livelihood of peoples and economic activities along the border areas that have been adversely affected by impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Second, they also agreed to expeditiously revive tourism cooperation to create jobs and income for our people. The Thai Prime Minister reaffirmed Thailand’s readiness to support Lao PDR on the construction of Xieng Man – Luang Prabang Bridge to promote tourism connectivity along this corridor.
Third, both agreed to further accelerate and expand transport connectivity, particularly the rail linkage between the two countries through the construction of a new railway bridge near the First Thai – Lao Friendship Bridge (Nong Khai and Vientiane), which will help in the realization of the full potential of the Laos – China Railway for the benefits of both countries.
Forth, both parties also agreed to advance key infrastructure projects and further harmonize relevant standards and regulations.
And fifth, they both agreed to strengthen cooperation on digital economy which is vital for national development in the modern economy. Thailand stands ready to support the Lao PDR on the development of digital skills and capacity-building of human resources, as well as the improvement of international payment system. The two countries also committed to enhance cooperation on clean energy.
On security cooperation. Thailand and the Lao PDR will step up border patrol to prevent illegal border crossings and further strengthen cooperation in the prevention and suppression of drug trafficking. The Prime Minister conveyed Thailand’s readiness to support the Lao PDR on further investigation of perpetrators, arrest cases and provision of modern equipment. Moreover, the two countries will fully cooperate to tackle organized crimes such as “Call Centre Gangs” and human trafficking in order to prevent the people from falling victim to these criminal networks.
On cooperation at the people-to-people level. The two Prime Ministers attached high importance to forging closer cooperation at the people-to-people level in order to lay a strong foundation for advancing bilateral relations in all aspects, and agreed to further strengthen bilateral development cooperation in public health, particularly between hospitals along the Thai – Lao border.  Thailand and Lao PDR will also work closely in the areas of agriculture and human resources development.  Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation of Thailand is ready to provide over 700 scholarships to young people from the Lao PDR so that they may pursue higher education in Thailand. This will provide good opportunities to bring youths of both the countries closer together. The two Prime Ministers also agreed to forge closer cooperation between the mass media of both countries to help promote better and deeper understanding at the people-to-people level.
On sub-regional and regional cooperation. Both the Prime Ministers agreed that Thailand and the Lao PDR should closely coordinate and enhance cooperation at both sub-regional and regional levels in order to be better prepared for present and future challenges. Thailand fully supports Lao PDR as the host of the 10th ACMECS Summit this year to unite the efforts of the countries in the Mekong Sub-region towards achieving a strong and sustainable economic recovery. Thailand and Lao PDR also reaffirmed commitment to working closely to promote ASEAN solidarity and further integration among ASEAN Member States, which is essential for ASEAN in order to continue playing important roles in the maintenance of regional security, stability and development.
After the Joint Press Conference, the Prime Minister and Prime Minister of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic attended an arts and handicraft exhibition at the main hall of Santi Maitri Building, followed by a gala dinner at the Outer Santi Maitri Building hosted by the Prime Minister in honor of the Prime Minister of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic.
On occasion of the Lao Prime Minister’s official visit to Thailand, the Thai Government has given its support for the establishment of Thai - Lao Friendship Centre for Social Development in Xaythany District of the Vientiane Capital, which is aimed at providing a one stop service and support for victims of human trafficking. Both countries also signed and exchanged the following 3 MOUs:
1. Five-Year Action Plan on Thai – Lao Strategic Partnership for Growth and Sustainable Development (2022 – 2026)
2. Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Government of the Lao PDR regarding Cooperation on the Development of Electrical Energy in the Lao PDR 2022
3. Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Government of the Lao PDR on Thai - Lao Arboretum Project
------------------------------

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/55293