รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand and Lao PDR to reinforce cooperation in public health and cross-border connectivity


วันศุกร์ที่ 5 พฤศจิกายน 2564
พิมพ์
Thailand and Lao PDR to reinforce cooperation in public health and cross-border connectivity
Thailand and Lao PDR to reinforce cooperation in public health and cross-border connectivity
November 4, 2021, at 1430hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Saleumxay Kommasith, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Lao People's Democratic Republic, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his visit to Thailand to attend the 22nd Thailand- Lao PDR Joint Commission (JC) Meeting. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Lao PDR to Thailand, and congratulated the success of the 22nd Thailand- Lao PDR Joint Commission (JC) Meeting under which the goal to restrengthen relations and cooperation has been reached. The Prime Minister also conveyed his regard to Lao PDR President Thongloun Sisoulith and Prime Minister Phankham Viphavanh, and hoped to meet the two leaders in person once the COVID-19 situation eases.
Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Lao PDR expressed pleasure to have visited Thailand once again. Thailand and Lao PDR have forged tight-knitted relations and cooperation in all dimensions. The Lao PDR Minister hoped that the two countries continue to reinforce post-COVID-19 cooperation, especially in the fields of public health, infrastructure investment, and border cooperation, for the benefits of the people of both countries.
With regards to the 22nd Thailand- Lao PDR Joint Commission (JC) Meeting, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Lao PDR stated that he and the Thai Minister of Foreign Affairs were pleased with their first meeting in 3 years, and had a chance to review past cooperation between the two countries, which, despite the COVID-19 situation, Thailand and Lao PDR have continued to support and facilitate each other. Lao PDR wishes to increase cooperation with Thailand in tourism, rail connectivity, and trade connectivity to other countries, as well as border investment, public health cooperation, especially COVID-19 vaccination.
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure to endorse cooperation in the fields of mutual interest. On border cooperation, Thailand urged for close cooperation mechanism along the border at the operational level to prevent illegal cross border activities. Cross-border trade for economic rehabilitation should also be promoted through the reopening of temporary-closed border crossing points, in parallel with strengthening of public health safety. Concerned provincial governors and border officials of both countries will discuss further in detail on the matter. Thailand and Lao PDR should also reinforce cooperation on legal connectivity and various standards that will further facilitate trade and investment, and transport activities between the two countries.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/47854