รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM urges ASEAN and Australia more cooperation on public health, economic and people-to-people connectivity


วันพุธที่ 27 ตุลาคม 2564
พิมพ์
​PM urges ASEAN and Australia more cooperation on public health, economic and people-to-people connectivity
​PM urges ASEAN and Australia more cooperation on public health, economic and people-to-people connectivity
October 27, 2021, at 11.30 hrs, at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha attended and deliver an intervention at the 1st ASEAN- Australia Summit via a videoconference. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of his intervention as follows:
The Prime Minister extended a warm welcome to the Honourable Prime Minister Morrison to the meeting today. The 1st ASEAN-Australia Summit marks another important milestone in the Dialogue Relations of more than 47 years between both sides. Thailand and ASEAN stand ready to exchange views on an annual basis to steer this Strategic Partnership towards a closer and more dynamic and comprehensive Partnership.
The Prime Minister expressed hope to see all engagements evolve into constructive cooperation, support ASEAN centrality and be consistent with the objectives and principles of the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific. At this critical juncture, it is in our common interest to create an environment conducive to achieving a sustainable recovery in all dimensions for the benefit of our people. ASEAN is pleased that Australia has reiterated its commitment to ASEAN centrality and its support for ASEAN-led mechanisms and the AOIP. The Prime Minister also took the opportunity to propose three areas of cooperation as follows:
First is strengthening cooperation in public health. Promoting fair, equitable and rapid vaccine access remains an important priority. ASEAN would appreciate Australia’s support in implementing the relevant action plans, such as information sharing on research and development of vaccines and the establishment of an information sharing platform and database at the regional level.
Second is on cooperation in economic recovery through supporting ongoing negotiations to upgrade and modernize the AANZFTA to better cater to the needs of the private sector and complement the RCEP. The Prime Minister also invited Australia to examine the Bio-Circular-Green or BCG Economy Model which would be an important approach to accelerate the attainment of the SDGs.
The Prime Minister was also of the view that ASEAN and Australia enhance cybersecurity cooperation. ASEAN-Australia Political Security Initiative may be utilized to promote intelligence sharing and capacity building among cyber personnel in monitoring, detecting and identifying cybercrime.
Third is on promoting people-to-people connectivity. Reopening borders should be explored so that, at the very least, students may return to Australia to resume their studies. After that, tourism may be promoted under mutually agreed measures. Additionally, digital platforms can be used to promote art and cultural exchanges, as well as other creative activities and digital content, particularly among the youth, to foster closer relations and better understanding, as well as the exchange of knowledge and continuity in our engagement.
As the incoming APEC host in 2022, the Prime Minister also look forward to welcoming the Honourable Prime Minister Morrison to Thailand, which would also coincide with the 70th Anniversary of the establishment of the diplomatic relations between Thailand and Australia.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/47457