รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM chairs signing of MOU between 7 ministries to propel lifelong human development


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 24 มีนาคม 2565
พิมพ์
PM chairs signing of MOU between 7 ministries to propel lifelong human development
PM chairs signing of MOU between 7 ministries to propel lifelong human development
March 24, 2022, at 0900hrs, at the Inner Santi Maitri Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha presided over the signing ceremony of the “Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on Integrated Cooperation of Seven Ministries: Lifelong Human Development (Early Childhood and Elderly People), 2022-2026” between 7 ministries, namely Ministry of Social Development and Human Security, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Higher Education, Sciences, Research and Innovation, Ministry of Digital Economy and Society, Ministry of Labor, Ministry of Education, and Ministry of Public Health. Participating in the ceremony were Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Public Health Anutin Charnvirakul, Minister of Interior, Gen. Anupong Paojinda, Minister of Social Development and Human Security Juti Krairiksh, Minister of Digital Economy and Society Chaiwut Thanakamanusorn, Minister of Labor Suchart Chomklin, Minister of Education Treenuch Thienthong, and Ministry of Higher Education, Sciences, Research and Innovation’s Office of the Higher Education Commission Dr. Sampan Rittidej.
The Prime Minister witnessed the signing of the 2 MOUs: MOU on Lifelong Human Development (Early Childhood), 2022-2026, and MOU on Lifelong Human Development (Elderly People), 2022-2026, and delivered a keynote speech on “Security, Prosperity, Sustainability Through Lifelong Human Development”.
According to the Prime Minister, the Government has placed great importance on manpower development of all ages as everyone is fundamental to comprehensive development and advancement of the nation. Children in their early childhood need to be comprehensively and equitably developed in all dimensions. Their talent and gift must be identified to enhance capacity and immunity to changes. They should be cared and nurtured at every stage, from the parents, family, school, and society in order to become quality citizens. It is also important to develop positive attitude toward the elderly people as they are still a key driving force in the national development with their potentials and self-reliance. The signing of the MOUs today would be an integration of the Government’s policies and strategic plans toward tangible actions.
The Prime Minister also underscored the elderly development approach or “4S”, which comprises: 1) Social Participation, 2) Social Security, 3) Strong Health, and 4) Smart Digital and Innovation, and the early childhood development approach or “5H”: 1) Heart, 2) Head, 3) Hand, 4) Health, and 5) Hi-tech. Under the integrated cooperation on lifelong human development, all sectors are urged to join forces in creating awareness and common understanding, as well as unity and love. Everyone must also get equitable access to public sector services.
In conclusion, the Prime Minister thanked all concerned parties for taking part in propelling lifelong human development operation in all dimensions, which would be greatly beneficial in the long run while the Government strives to do everything for the country and people to ensure that no one is left behind.
After the keynote speech, the Prime Minister visited an exhibition on Lifelong Human Development (Early Childhood and Elderly People), and greeted with the children and elderly people who attended the ceremony.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/52912