รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM opens and delivers keynote address at 2022 Global Summit of Women


วันศุกร์ที่ 24 มิถุนายน 2565
พิมพ์
PM opens and delivers keynote address at 2022 Global Summit of Women
PM opens and delivers keynote address at 2022 Global Summit of Women
June 23, 2022, at 1730hrs, at the Convention Center, Centara Grand Central World Hotel, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha delivered a keynote address at the opening of the 2022 Global Summit of Women, which was attended by approx. 1,000 participants from 52 countries. Deputy Government Spokesperson Ratchada Thanadirek disclosed gist of his keynote address as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure and honor to chair the opening ceremony of the 2022 Global Summit of Women. This would be a good opportunity for Thailand to be shared with good experiences from international women leaders. He also commended the event organization which highlighted environmental conservation through close monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions from its meetings and activities. According to the Prime Minister, this is in line with the Thai Government’s policy and principle, and reflects Thailand’s readiness for global environmental responsibility.
At present, the world has been fast changing. Coupling with wide-ranging challenges, cooperation of all sectors is, therefore, crucial. The Thai Government has pushed forward national development in every dimension, including promotion of gender equality to empower women of all ages, especially the vulnerability groups. Women’s role in propelling the economic system has been more and more prominent, both as consumers and manufacturers. With the spread of COVID-19 as the main catalyst, women have become key drivers of socio-economic growth.
One concrete example is enhancement of women’s role in driving the economy and promoting peace in the Southern border provinces of Thailand. The Thai Government has faith in women capacity, and allocated budget for their capacity building, employment promotion, and provision of knowledge and market channels. Women are also community peace keepers, monitoring and ensuring orderliness of respective locality. During the COVID-19 situation, over 90% of more than a million healthcare volunteers in Thailand are women.
The Thai Government places importance on promoting women’s role in business and economic sectors, both at the regional and global levels, and provides access to knowhow and skill development for the digital era through the implementation of women labor capacity building program, in collaboration with the International Labor Organization (ILO). Thailand, together with other ASEAN member countries, also adopted the “Action Agenda on Mainstreaming Women’s Economic Empowerment in ASEAN” with an aim to achieve Goal 5 of the SDGs 2030, which is, to achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. The country is also set to host Women and the Economy Forum under the framework of APEC 2022 this September.
Nevertheless, there remains certain groups of women who lack access to equality. Being aware of this, the Government strives to continue promoting gender equality and addressing violence against women. The Prime Minister emphasized that women empowerment is not the agenda of women alone. He called for all sectors to take part in promoting women’s role by shifting attitude toward gender equality in both socio-economic and political dimensions, and eradicating discriminations in order to engage women in sustainable development to the full capacity.
In closing, the Prime Minister commended the organizer of the 2022 Global Summit of Women, and expressed confidence the event would also enable cooperation networking, expansion of business opportunity, and women empowerment in sustainable global economic development. He, then, declared the 2022 Global Summit of Women opened and wished for its success.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/56116