รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with members of U.S. - ASEAN Business Council


วันอังคารที่ 30 พฤศจิกายน 2564
พิมพ์
PM meets with members of U.S. - ASEAN Business Council
PM meets with members of U.S. - ASEAN Business Council
November 29, 2021, at 0900hrs, at the Outer Santi Maitri Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha attended a hybrid meeting with members of the U.S. - ASEAN Business Council(USABC). Participating in the meeting were Mr. Michael Heath, Chargé d' Affaires a.i. of the U.S. Mission in Thailand, Mr. Ted Osius, USABC president, and U.S. businessmen from 49 leading firms. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Chargé d' Affaires a.i. of the U.S. Mission in Thailandstated that the meeting reflected long-standing relations between the two countries, as Thailand is the oldest friend of the U.S. in Asia, and a major market in its supply chain. He also commended the Thai Government’s effective management of the COVID-19 situation, which has brought the USABC members here, and affirmed USABC’s priority placed over Thailand in the Southeast Asian region and its intent for investment expansion in the country. USABC is also pleased to support Thailand’s APEC chairmanship next year.
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure to meet with USABC members, which is the largest group in the history of its annual visit to the region. This would be a good opportunity to exchange views on Thailand’s economic development direction, and to further promote business cooperation between Thailand and the U.S. Trade volume between the two countries during the first 7 months of this year has amounted to over US$29 billion, an increase of 6.19% yoy. Both parties also agreed that cooperation be focused on clean energy, EV technology, and promotion of secure, sustainable, and diversified supply chain, all of which are key fundamentals to international cooperation promotion. The Thai Government stands ready to work closely with all firms, and promote U.S. private sector’s role in a bid to enhance mutual trade and investment.
The Prime Minister proposed Thailand’s 3 issues of priority to drive national economy toward the Next Normal in a secure, prosperous, and sustainable manner:
1) Promoting balanced and sustainable economic growth, withthe BCG economic model as a national agenda to drive the nation’s economic development by utilizing innovations and digital technology to add value to goods and services while creating sustainability of resource bases and promoting clean energy. Thailand commits to cooperate with the U.S. private sector in the production and use of clean energy, production of biomass energy, and promotion of EV and parts industry to promote Thailand as world’s EV production hub.
2) Promoting sustainable, resilient, diversified, and secure supply chains in the region, especially in the production of high-energy density batteries for EV, and in adding value to medical equipment and supply industry to enhance Thailand’s and the region’s public health security in the long run. This could be done through the cooperation on innovation and technology transfer to promote Thailand as COVID-19 vaccine production hub and the world’s leading destination for medical tourism.
3) Promoting digital economy to enhance capacity and potential of the Thai economy in coping with the Next Normal challenges. The goal is to promote Thailand as the region’s data and cloud center. Focus may be made on the development of platform economy, sharing economy, and cloud services, as well as promotion and development of e-commerce, digital startups, and 15 smart cities across the country, and digital workforce’s skill enhancement. The Prime Minister also invited the U.S. private sector to invest in the Digital Valley and EEC’s IoT Institute in a bid to drive Digital Thailand forward.
The Prime Minister also mentioned Thailand’s hosting of APEC 2022 under the theme: “Open. Connect. Balance.”, and expressed hope that the U.S. private sector would endorse the issues of shared interest in order for the APEC chairmanship to be seamlessly handed over from Thailand to the U.S. in 2023.
The USABC president affirmed cooperation with Thailand on export promotion and expansion, especially in the field of health and public healthcare, and commended Thailand’s commitment to promote digital economy and sustainable use of energy. He was also pleased to support Thailand’s hosting of APEC in 2022, and committed to work closely in a responsible mannerwith the Thai government agencies to conduct business in the country, while fighting against the COVID-19 together.
The Prime Minister thanked USABC members for all the suggestions, and called on them to have faith in Thailand’s potential and the Thai Government’s commitment to drive economic rehabilitation for the future that is opened, connected, balanced, and sustainable.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/48915