รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM delivers statement at UNGA76 and emphasizesmultilateral cooperation under UN framework in response to COVID-19


วันอาทิตย์ที่ 26 กันยายน 2564
พิมพ์
PM delivers statement at UNGA76 and emphasizesmultilateral cooperation under UN framework in response to COVID-19
PM delivers statement at UNGA76 and emphasizesmultilateral cooperation under UN framework in response to COVID-19
September 26, 2021, at 0000hrs (1300hrs in New York, USA), Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha delivered a statement via a teleconference at the “76th Session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA76)”, held at the UN Headquarters in New York, USA under theme: “Building resilience through hope – to recover from COVID-19, rebuild sustainably, respond to the needs of the planet, respect the rights of people, and revitalize the United Nations”. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of his statement as follows:
According to the Prime Minister, with COVID-19, the global community is confronting one of the most serious multi-dimensional challenges of our lifetime, and the virus is believed to stay for years to come. Thus, it is crucial that all countries learn to coexist with COVID-19 and foster quality societies in the ‘next normal’ world. To compound this situation, climate-induced catastrophes have also aggravated the ongoing turmoil caused by the pandemic and created tremendous losses, while further disrupting global efforts towards the realization of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). These unfortunate events also affect the livelihoods of the global population, especially those living in developing countries.
The Prime Minister also congratulated UN Secretary-General for his “Our Common Agenda” report, which envisages closer global cooperation on key issues and reinvigorating inclusive, networked, and effective multilateralism in order to foster a peaceful international environment, as well as a better and more sustainable future for all.The most important things for us are “hope” and the aspiration towards building a better future by focusing on balanced and people-centric development that leaves nobody behind. He encouragedeveryone to turn crisis into opportunity – an opportunity to reform multilateral cooperation and make it a genuine driver of change.
The Prime Minister emphasized that the COVID-19 pandemic is a living proof that nobody is safe until everybody is safe, and urged that COVID-19 vaccines and medicines be considered as global public goods which can be accessible to all in an equitable and rapid manner. Research and development on vaccines, medicines and necessary medical equipment must also be encouraged in order to better equip and elevate the medical industries of countries around the world to deal with emerging diseases of the future.
Moreover, every country must take actions to strengthen public health systems, particularly on achieving Universal Health Coverage (UHC) and supporting efforts within the scope of the World Health Organization (WHO) to collectively enhance global health security. This includes the call for a new Pandemic Treaty and the imperative to rethink the paradigm of global health security.
Thailand has also been promoting integration and coherence between health and disaster risk management, both natural-related and emerging diseases-related, and would like to encourage the international community to utilize the Bangkok Principles which provide guidance on the implementation of the health aspects of the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction. An important thing isthe building of a resilient, equitable and fair global health systemwill be a fundamental basis for our recovery in a sustainable manner.
Due to unbalanced growth and development, the world is facing a growing existential threat of natural catastrophes connected with climate change on an unprecedented scale. Thailand is in the process of preparing the National Energy Plan with an aim to achieve carbon neutrality by 2065-2070. At the same time, the country hasset the target to increase the proportion of renewable energy to at least 50 per cent of the total amount of electricity generated. We are also committed to increase the use of electric vehicles (EV) to 30 per cent of total domestic vehicles. In this regard, Thailand urges developed countries to take lead in significantly reducing in greenhouse gas emissions, and calls on the global community to take collective actions to ensure constructive and concrete outcomes at COP26.
The Prime Minister emphasized that the crisis must be turned into an opportunity to reengineer the way the world works to better prepare for the transformative reset to ensure “Balance of All Things”. It is particularly important to foster balanced development that is environment-friendly through the cooperation on Science, Technology and Innovation (STI). Thailand remains committed to carry forward our initiative on the Eastern Economic Corridor or the EEC to be a jewel in the crown for international creative economy. The countryemphasizes the importance of financial assistance and technology transfers for research & development and innovation extended to developing countries through various cooperative frameworks to boost their capacities and increase their participation in addressing global problems as well as enable them to swiftly adjust to changes, build immunity and better recover from global warming in a sustainable manner.
Driving forward realization of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) across all sectors is a key instrument to respond to the challenges the world is facing, and to deal with inequalities exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic. The international community must place due importance on the implementation of the Addis Ababa Action Agenda, as well as to other economic measures vital for stimulating economic recovery in developing countries.Thailand, as the ASEAN Coordinator on Sustainable Development Cooperation, is committed to promoting complementarities between the ASEAN Community Vision 2025 and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development to boost the post COVID-19 pandemic recovery, as well as to contribute to global immunity against future challenges. The Prime Minister expressed belief that balance is at the heart of the realization of the SDGs and is a key instrument for dealing with crises and challenges, whether from emerging diseases, food security, threats to biodiversity, human rights problems, or poverty eradication. Thailand applies the Sufficiency Economy Philosophy (SEP) as guidelines for achieving the SDGs including through the promotion of the Bio-Circular-Green Economy Modelthat constitutes a balanced and sustainable approach to development. The country also pays great attention to the promotion of global food security through the adoption of the New Theory Agriculture, accompanied by initiatives such as the Agriculture for School Lunch Project, under the patronage of Her Royal Highness Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn, as prototype to instill a sustainable consumption approach into the youth.
Peace and stability are an indispensable foundation for driving forward the Sustainable Development Agenda, leaving no-one behind. It is, therefore, crucial for the global community to join hands in creating a peaceful environment by promoting mutual trust and solidarity, particularly among the major powers. Thailand has continuously played a role on questions of sustaining peace and in peacekeeping and security processes, including by seeking a constructive role in the Peacebuilding Commission (PBC) and making voluntary contributions to the Peacebuilding Fund (PBF).Meanwhile, Thai police and military forces continue to participate actively in UN missions in support of the vital work of peace building.Moreover, Thailand has pledged a financial contribution of 150,000 USD to support the work of UN organizations in order to alleviate humanitarian crisis there, and, together with other Core Group states,consider the entry into force of the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapon (TPNW) on 22 January 2021. This is an encouraging manifestation of the determination of the global community to comply with commitments under the UN Charter in promoting a world that is free from nuclear weapons for succeeding generations. Thailand further supports building complementarities between cooperation under the TPNW and the Treaty on the Non – Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT).
With regard to the Myanmar situation, Thailand is committed to supporting efforts in fostering an environment of peace and reconciliation in Myanmar through multilateral diplomacy. As a close neighbor and fellow ASEAN Member State, Thailand has been closely following developments, and fully supports the implementation of the Five-Point Consensus agreed upon by ASEAN leaders, accompanied by cooperation on health and humanitarian assistance.
At the moment, the COVID-19 situation in Thailand is still as challenging as in many other countries. The Prime Minister expressed belief that ongoing endeavor to build the immunity of people against the virus remains crucial. In this regard, Universal Health Coverage (UHC) will continue to serve as an efficient tool to deal with health challenges and emerging diseases. Thailand has also leveraged the strength of our Village Volunteers system and Thai traditional knowledge to fight against COVID-19, and is proud of having been able to draw on ‘Fah Talai Chon’, a local Thai herb, as an alternative medicine to relieve COVID-19 symptoms.
December this year will mark the 75th anniversary of Thailand’s membership in the United Nations. Throughout the past 75 years, the country has been a responsible, reliable and constructive member and development partner of the UN across all 3 pillars. Moreover, Thailand is honored to act as a superhub for the UN in Asia, hosting over 40 agencies, and has strong determination to be a regional centerfor international cooperation and training through South-South and triangular cooperation. The country, in collaboration with the UNESCAP and the UN Office for South-South Cooperation, will co-host the Global South-South Development Expo in Bangkok in 2022.
And in 2022, Thailand will be the host of Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC). The 3 main priorities that Thailand is driving forward are: (1) facilitating trade and investment; (2) rebooting regional connectivity, particularly in the travel and tourism industry; and (3) advancing sustainable and inclusive growth. These priorities underscore Thailand’s commitment to promoting multilateral cooperation to ensure balanced development in the post-COVID-19 world. We hope to welcome the world to Thailand in the present context of constant change.
In closing, the Prime Minister emphasized that multilateral cooperation in the response to the COVID-19 pandemic, especially under the UN framework, will lead to great advances in the field of medical science. Equally, the strength of the international community in tackling the global warming crisis will serve as a catalyst for breakthroughs in advanced technology and innovation. Resilient adaptation and swift response to challenges will be an asset for us to address the problems of today, to be better prepared for challenges of tomorrow, to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals, and ultimately to build back a better world.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/46226