รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand and Japan agree to elevate inclusive and comprehensive Strategic Partnership


วันจันทร์ที่ 2 พฤษภาคม 2565
พิมพ์
Thailand and Japan agree to elevate inclusive and comprehensive Strategic Partnership
Thailand and Japan agree to elevate inclusive and comprehensive Strategic Partnership
May 2, 2022, at 18.00 hrs, at the Inner Santi Maitri Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha witnessed the signing of 3 agreements between Thailand and Japan, and delivered a statement at the joint press conference with H.E. Mr. KISHIDA Fumio, Prime Minister of Japan in the latter’s official visit to Thailand. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist as follows:
The Thai and Japanese Prime Ministers witnessed the signing of 3 Agreements: 1) Exchange of Notes on Financial Cooperation between the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Government of Japan; 2) Agreement on Transfer of Defense Equipment and Technology Between the Government of Japan and the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand; and 3) Exchange of Notes regarding the grant by the Government of Japan under the Program for COVID-19 Crisis Response Emergency Support.
In his statement, the Thai Prime Minister welcomed the Prime Minister of Japan on occasion of the latter’s official visit to Thailand, which is indeed meaningful, as this visit took place on the occasion of the 135th anniversary of the diplomatic relations. It also coincides with Thailand’s coordinator for the ASEAN-Japan relations between 2021 - 2024, during which ASEAN and Japan will mark its 50th commemorative year of Friendship and Cooperation in 2023, and Thailand’s hosting of APEC 2022. The Thai and Japanese Prime Ministers also discussed 6 important issues as follow:
First is to elevate the Strategic Partnership between Thailand and Japan.
On the occasion of the 135th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations and the 10th anniversary of the establishment of the Strategic Partnership between Thailand and Japan this year, both sides were pleased with the continued development of the relations and saw merit in considering the elevation of the bilateral relations from a “Strategic Partnership” to a “Comprehensive Strategic Partnership” to reflect the close and progressive relations.
Second is to enhance economic cooperation for the future.
The two Prime Ministers agreed to enhance economic cooperation between Thailand and Japan and acknowledged that both sides are drafting the 5-Year Joint Strategic Plan on Thailand-Japan Strategic Economic Partnership. One of the issues, on which both Thailand and Japan attached high importance, is supply chain connectivity to further cover various areas in line with the countries’ economic development plans, such as the BCG Economy, technology on smart agriculture, 5G communication technology, cooperation on artificial intelligence, robotics, development of electric vehicles and components, infrastructure development, cooperation on research and development, as well as the establishment of human resource development centers with a view to enhance capability for Thai people.
Third is to strengthen cooperation for the Post-COVID-19 recovery.
The Prime Minister expressed appreciation to the Government of Japan for providing various forms of assistance to Thailand to alleviate the impact of the COVID-19 situation. Both Prime Ministers also agreed to further enhance cooperation in healthcare between Thailand and Japan to address the COVID-19 and other possible emerging diseases in the future and promote the gradual relaxation of immigration measures in accordance with the developments in COVID-19 situation in order for the people of the two countries to incrementally resume travel.
Fourth is to enhance defense, security and judicial cooperation.
Prime Ministers of Japan and Thailand are pleased with the close defense and security cooperation between Thailand and Japan under bilateral and multilateral frameworks, with a view to promoting peace and prosperity in the region, and concurred on the negotiation of the Treaty on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Kingdom of Thailand and Japan to enhance judicial cooperation between the two countries.
Fifth is to enhance cooperation in the development of the sub-region and region.
The two Prime Ministers are satisfied with the Partnership for Development between Thailand and Japan and reaffirmed the commitment to enhance technical cooperation in third countries, such as in the Mekong sub-region. Both sides also reaffirmed the determination to develop the Mekong sub-region, particularly in promoting connectivity, human resource development, and sustainable development under Mekong-Japan Cooperation and the Ayeyawady – Chao Phraya – Mekong Economic Cooperation Strategy (ACMECS).
On ASEAN-Japan cooperation, as Thailand is the country coordinator for ASEAN-Japan Dialogue Relations, The Prime Minister reaffirmed Thailand's commitment to strengthen ASEAN-Japan cooperation in all dimensions, which includes the promotion of cooperation in key areas under the ASEAN-Outlook on the Indo-Pacific (AOIP) and synergizing between AOIP and Japan’s Free and Open Indo-Pacific (FOIP). The Prime Minister also thanked Japan’s support of Thailand’s hosting of APEC 2022 under the theme “Open. Connect. Balance.”, and reaffirmed readiness to welcome Prime Minister Kishida on another visit to Thailand to attend the APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting in November this year.
Sixth is to enhance cooperation in responding to regional and international situations.
The Thai and Japanese Prime Ministers exchanged views on important regional and international issues. Concerning the situation in Ukraine, Thailand and Japan reaffirmed the principles of territorial integrity, international law, and the United Nations Charter. Both sides expressed concern over the escalation of tension in the situation and urged all relevant parties to cease all hostilities and violence and exercise utmost restraint. In addition, Thailand proposed a similar approach to resolve the situation in Myanmar and attached importance to humanitarian assistance for the people of Myanmar.
The outcomes of today’s meeting between the two Prime Ministers reflect the inclusive and comprehensive Strategic Partnership between Thailand and Japan. The Thai Prime Minister affirmed the commitment by the Royal Thai Government to work with Prime Minister Kishida and the Government of Japan to implement the deliverables of this visit into tangible results for the benefit of the countries, peoples, and region at large.
The Prime Minister of Japan, then, attended a dinner hosted in his honour by the Prime Minister of Thailand.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/54159