รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with U.S. Ambassador and Permanent Representative to the United Nations


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 12 สิงหาคม 2564
พิมพ์
PM meets with U.S. Ambassador and Permanent Representative to the United Nations
PM meets with U.S. Ambassador and Permanent Representative to the United Nations
August 11, 2021, at 1100hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mrs. Linda Thomas-Greenfield, Ambassador and Permanent Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of her visit to Thailand as guest of the Thai Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed the Ambassador to Thailand, and expressed hope for Thailand and the U.S. to continue with the regular exchange of contact, following his earlier meeting with the Deputy Secretary of State, and a phone conversation with the Secretary of Defense. He also conveyed his regards to President Joe Biden, and thanked the U.S. for continuous cooperation and support, especially during the COVID-19 situation. The Prime Minister stressed that Thailand and the U.S. have had a number of relevant policies, under which cooperation in various aspects could be promoted, including the development cooperation at both bilateral, regional, Mekong subregional, and multilateral (UN) levels, to tackle current and future challenges.
The U.S. Ambassador and Permanent Representative to the United Nations expressed pleasure to have visited Thailand and met with the Prime Minister. She also conveyed President Biden’s regards to the Prime Minister, commended Thailand’s leading role in the Indo-Pacific region, and affirmed the U.S.’s priority over the relationship with Thailand, the country’s long-time friend, as both futures tie to each other.
Both parties also exchanged views on the Myanmar situation, and came to term on humanitarian assistance provided to the country. As Myanmar’s neighboring country, Thailand has closely followed up on the situation, especially along the border area, and stands ready to cooperate with the global community and the U.S. to solve the problem in a sustainable manner. The Prime Minister affirmed Thailand’s commitment and strong adherence to the humanitarian principle, according to which persons fleeing from fighting and the people who have been affected by the Myanmar situation will be assisted by the Thai Government. The U.S. Ambassador and Permanent Representative to the United Nations expressed appreciation and confidence on the Thai Government’s endeavor. Concerned agencies of both Thailand and the U.S. are also ready to share experiences and join forces in providing humanitarian and public health assistance to the Myanmar people.
The U.S. Ambassador and Permanent Representative to the United Nations also underscored the need for all parties to forge cooperation in response to the COVID-19 crisis. She commended the Thai Government’s prompt and proper allocation of U.S.-donated Pfizer vaccines, and the Prime Minister thanked the U.S. Government for supporting Thailand’s endeavor to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic. U.S. donation of over 1.5 million doses of vaccines reflects long-standing friendship and strong public health cooperation between the two countries for mutual interest. The U.S. Ambassador and Permanent Representative to the United Nations added that the U.S. has planned to hand over additional 1 million doses of vaccines and related assistance, worth US$5 million, to Thailand to support its fight against COVID-19.
Toward the end of the meeting, the two parties discussed the climate change issue. According to the U.S. Ambassador and Permanent Representative to the United Nations, Biden Administration has placed much importance on the Paris Agreement. The Prime Minister affirmed that the environmental issue is one of the Thai Government’s key agendas, with the aim to achieve carbon neutrality by 2065 – 2070. He would also be glad to welcome U.S. businesses to invest in Thailand under the Bio – Circular – Green (BCG) Economy Model.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/44670