รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM attends 24th ASEAN Plus Three Summit, wishes to strengthen the people-centred community for sustainability


วันพุธที่ 27 ตุลาคม 2564
พิมพ์
PM attends 24th ASEAN Plus Three Summit, wishes to strengthen the people-centred community for sustainability
PM attends 24th ASEAN Plus Three Summit, wishes to strengthen the people-centred community for sustainability
October 27, 2021, at 1400hrs, at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha attended and deliver a statement at the 24th ASEAN Plus Three Summit via a videoconference. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of his statement as follows:
According to the Prime Minister, the COVID-19 situation has inevitably brought about adverse impacts on the “Old Normal”. For almost two years, everyone has had to adjust ourselves to the “New Normal” and work together to address common challenges, not by choice but by necessity. However, the strength of the ASEAN Plus Three lies in how to respond to the crisis in a timely and effectively manner, both in a short term and a long term. This has been tested time after time with clear and concrete evidence. The Prime Minister expressed belief that once again a crisis can be turned into an opportunity.
The Prime Minister took the opportunity to propose ways forward for the ASEAN Plus Three to strengthen the people-centered East Asia community that is secure, prosperous and sustainable:
First, member states should continue to maintain the ASEAN Plus Three as the main cooperation framework for promoting long-term regional resilience in a concrete and effective manner, through cooperation mechanisms in various areas, with a view to building up our capabilities in addressing challenges in all dimensions, including public health, economy, environment and sustainable development. Thailand stands ready to develop a new APT Cooperation Work Plan for 2023-2027. Establishment of a new East Asia Vision Group, comprising experts from the APT countries, may be considered to come up with useful policy recommendations as member states move forward to the Next Normal together.
Second, the Plus Three Countries’ continued cooperation in COVID-19 response both within the ASEAN framework and bilaterally is a significant impetus in addressing this challenge, especially their contributions to the COVID-19 ASEAN Response Fund, which will be most effectively utilized for further distribution of vaccines and medical supplies for peoples in the region. The severe and extensive impacts of COVID-19 remind us to move forward cautiously. We need to be prepared for future public health emergencies in all aspects. The Plus Three Countries can help enhance regional capacities in this regard, especially in terms of vaccines, medicines, research and development, reserves of necessary medical supplies and medical equipment, as well as development of public health infrastructure. Moreover, mental health care of all groups of peoples is a pressing issue. As the ASEAN Plus Three Leaders’ Statement on Cooperation on Mental Health Among Adolescents and Young Children has been adopted, Thailand stands ready to implement this Statement towards concrete outcomes, particularly on mental health care of adolescents and children.
Third, ASEAN welcomes the Plus Three partners’ engagement in effective implementation of the ASEAN Comprehensive Recovery Framework (ACRF) to promote long-term regional resilience, through economic integration and supply chain connectivity. In particular, ASEAN looks forward to the early entry into force of the RCEP, as well as utilization of digital economy and digital technology with a focus on capacity building for MSMEs, start-ups and local entrepreneurs to drive the grassroot economy forward, and push forward Connecting the Connectivities Initiative towards concrete outcomes.
The Prime Minister also proposed advancement of the Chiang Mai Initiative Multilateralism (CMIM) with financial innovations to maintain financial and monetary stability as well as the ASEAN Plus Three Emergency Rice Reserve (APTERR) to strengthen food security. Concurrently, cooperation mechanisms for sustainable development should be developed to explore alternative approaches that are beneficial to all mankind for sustainable future, such as synergizing the BCG with the respective green policies and strategies of the Plus Three partners.
Last is that long-term regional resilience that is based on durable peace. Thailand encourages all parties concerned to engage constructively and uphold ASEAN centrality. The Prime Minister also reiterated the country’s commitment and readiness to support peaceful resolution processes, positive development and progress related to dialogue that will lead to the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula.
With the silver anniversary of the APT next year, the Prime Minister was of the view that close cooperation between the Plus Three Countries is key to building a strong East Asia community, which is a crucial for promoting durable peace and shared prosperity in the region.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/47474