รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Thailand – Germany forges cooperation on climate finances


วันจันทร์ที่ 21 มีนาคม 2565
​Thailand – Germany forges cooperation on climate finances
​Thailand – Germany forges cooperation on climate finances
March 20, 2022, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha was pleased with the cooperation on climate finances between Thailand and Germany, which is in line with the Prime Minister’s proclamation, at the World Leaders Summit of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Conference of the Parties (COP26) on November 1, 2021, to be more aggressive in addressing the climate change challenges in every way and every means possible, by aiming at reaching carbon neutrality in 2050, and Net Zero Emission in or before 2065.
Thailand is willing to work together with the country’s nation friends to protect environment and take forward the cooperation on Long-Term Low GHG Emissions Development Strategy (LT-LEDS). On March 14, 2022, Office of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy and Planning, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, in collaboration with German Agency for International Cooperation (GIZ), has organized “Thailand Climate Finance Conference: From International to Domestic Mechanism” to disseminate climate financial information and investment to those interested from both public, private, education, and people sectors, as well as the media and independent organizations. The event was also aimed to promote development of low GHG emission technology, and discuss opportunities and challenges of the green business sector. Other than GIZ, Thailand has also forged cooperation on climate change with various international organizations, such as Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), UN, UNDP, FAO, NDCs, etc.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Prime Minister has confidence in the potential of Thailand’s green economic development, which could be built upon to enhance the country’s status as sustainable and green industrial hub. The BCG Economic Model has been focused to add value and increase competitiveness while taking into account environmental protection, low GHG emission manufacturing, and the SDGs. The Government has a policy to promote electric vehicles (EVs) industry to encourage domestic use of EVs, and elevate Thailand as regional hub and base for EVs production. The areas of alternative and renewable energy, as well as reuse & recycle, will also be promoted to ensure balanced, sustainable and inclusive growth going forward.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/52786