รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM emphasizes importance of durable peace for ASEAN and China to move towards comprehensive strategic partnership


วันอังคารที่ 26 ตุลาคม 2564
พิมพ์
PM emphasizes importance of durable peace for ASEAN and China to move towards comprehensive strategic partnership
PM emphasizes importance of durable peace for ASEAN and China to move towards comprehensive strategic partnership
October 26, 2021, at 1400hrs, at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha attended and deliver an intervention at the 24th ASEAN- China Summit via a videoconference. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of his intervention as follows:
The Prime Minister extended his congratulations to the Chinese Government on the occasion of the Centenary of the Founding of the Communist Party of China and the achievement in attaining the goal of eradicating absolute poverty and building a prosperous society this year, earlier than the planned timeframe. Thailand supports China’s unceasing development as a ‘responsible great power’ and expect China to continue its leading role in promoting cooperation in all aspects with the international community, including ASEAN and developing countries. He also expressed pleasure to participate in the ASEAN-China Special Summit, held on occasion of the 30th Anniversary of ASEAN-China Relations, and scheduled in late November this year, and shared his views on how ASEAN and China should enhance collaboration to address challenges and jointly achieve common future goals as follows:
First, health security is the top priority, on which both ASEAN and China should continue enhancing cooperation in response to COVID-19 and future emerging diseases, with a particular focus on R&D of safe and effective vaccines and medicines as well as the establishment of vaccine production and distribution centers in ASEAN. In the long run, public health preparedness should be strengthened in all dimensions, from upstream to downstream, to reduce casualty rates and more effectively respond to future emerging diseases and public health emergency situations.
Second, ASEAN and China should focus on economic security towards sustainable recovery and long-term resilience. As China is ASEAN’s top economic partner, the Prime Minister expressed pleasure that the outcome document was adopted today to reaffirm shared commitment to implementing the ASEAN Comprehensive Recovery Framework. Thailand also supports upgrading of the ASEAN-China Free Trade Agreement and is expediting its internal process to ratify the RCEP with a view to the early entry into force of this Agreement. The Prime Minister was of the view that ASEAN and China would mutually benefit from cooperation towards digital transformation, particularly by utilizing innovations and digital technology to drive the economies and add value to goods and services, as well as enhancing potentials of MSMEs, start-ups and local entrepreneurs, while taking into account the negative impacts on cybersecurity. ASEAN and China should also continue to enhance connectivity through the ASEAN-China Joint Statement on Synergizing the MPAC 2025 and the BRI, and work together on arrangements to facilitate safe international travel
Third, sustainable development is at the heart of our steady steps forward together. Thailand, as the ASEAN Coordinator for Sustainable Development Cooperation, is committed and ready to continue the constructive role in promoting activities under the ASEAN-China Years of Sustainable Development in 2021-2022. Cooperation under the Bio-Circular-Green Economy or BCG Model should also be explored to pave the way towards inclusive, balanced, and sustainable recovery and growth.
In closing, the Prime Minister emphasized the importance to maintain durable peace amidst the dynamics of complex regional and international situations in order for ASEAN and China to move towards a comprehensive strategic partnership. Thailand realizes the importance of upholding ASEAN centrality and ASEAN-centered regional architecture, and does not wish to see conflicts or confrontation among our friends and attach great importance to dialogue to find common solutions to the South China Sea issue. The country stands ready to continue constructive role, particularly in promoting win-win cooperation, such as marine environmental protection, and fully supports the implementation of relevant ASEAN-China mechanisms, especially negotiations towards an early conclusion of a COC that is effective, substantive and in accordance with international law.
As Thailand is hosting the APEC Summit in 2022, the Prime Minister very much looks forward to welcoming President Xi Jinping in Thailand.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/47413