รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand encourages ASEAN-Russia’s practical cooperation in four areas identified under AOIP


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 28 ตุลาคม 2564
พิมพ์
Thailand encourages ASEAN-Russia’s practical cooperation in four areas identified under AOIP
Thailand encourages ASEAN-Russia’s practical cooperation in four areas identified under AOIP
October 28, 2021, at 1400hrs, at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha attended and deliver a statement at the 4th ASEAN-Russia Summit via a videoconference. Attending the meeting were leaders of the ASEAN member states and President Vladimir Putin. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of his statement as follows:
According to the Prime Minister, it has been three years since the ASEAN-Russia Dialogue Partnership was elevated to the strategic level. Thailand is pleased to see Russia’s constructive role in the ASEAN-centered regional architecture, which despite these trying times, has led to significant progress and concrete outcomes in ASEAN-Russia cooperation in all dimensions.
On political-security cooperation, Thailand encourages Russia to consider advancing practical cooperation in the four areas identified under the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific (AOIP) based on the 3M principles, namely Mutual Trust, Mutual Respect and Mutual Benefit.
On economic cooperation, there is great potential for further expansion of trade and investment between ASEAN and Russia. Thailand also welcomes Russia’s proposal to designate the year 2022 as the ASEAN-Russia Year of Science and Technology Cooperation to build upon cooperation in the field of science, technology and innovation, in which Russia has expertise, including on vaccine research and development, as well as cooperation on the Bio-Circular-Green Economy or BCG Model, especially in the areas of alternative and renewable energy, which Thailand believes will be key in ensuring balanced, sustainable and inclusive growth going forward.
According to the Prime Minister, there could be a potential linkage between President Putin’s Greater Eurasian Partnership Initiative and the Master Plan on ASEAN Connectivity (MPAC) 2025 under Connecting the Connectivities initiative. Through such an approach, ASEAN and Russia can promote partnership between the two regions towards COVID-19 recovery through three vital keys, namely (1) development of modern and sustainable infrastructure and logistics, (2) strengthening of the global supply chains, and (3) promoting the use of digital technology.
The Prime Minister also looked forward to welcoming President Putin in Thailand at the APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting in 2022.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/47548