รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM : Multilateral dialogue based on equal partnership and principle of the 3Ms are cores of the “Next Normal” world


วันศุกร์ที่ 26 พฤศจิกายน 2564
พิมพ์
​PM : Multilateral dialogue based on equal partnership and principle of the 3Ms are cores of the “Next Normal” world
​PM : Multilateral dialogue based on equal partnership and principle of the 3Ms are cores of the “Next Normal” world
November 26 2021, at 18.00 (Thailand), at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha attended and delivered a statement via a teleconference on behalf of Thailand at the Retreat Session of the 13th ASEM Summit. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist as follows:
Cambodian Prime Minister mentioned his commitment in order to strengthening global and regional cooperation, highlighting issues including 1. promoting partnerships between the two regions, 2. promoting unity in ASEM, 3. promoting mutual benefit.  In addition, ASEM should adjust to get along with more complex global environment such as covid-19 pandemic, trade deprivation, conflicts between major powers.
Sultan and Yang Di-Pertuan of Brunei Darussalam mentioned that ASEM’s main principle conforms with the need to deal with COVID-19, the confrontation on geopolitics, economics and climate change issues.  The main points recently are multilateral cooperation, trust-building and peace protection.
Premier of the People’s Republic of China said that this meeting was an opportunity for leaders to share their views on multilateral cooperation and ASEM economic recoveries. ASEM is an important meeting between the two regions which could help tackle world challenges, especially COVID-19. Therefore, it must emphasize the importance of free trade. China insists to promote environmentally friendly development.
According to the Thai Prime Minister, there is a need to ensure balance in the post-COVID-19 world, and to manage the changes of the “Next Normal” world in order to prevent crises and consequence from happening again in the future. He also pointed out two great changes that need to be carefully managed so as to create balance, as follows:
First is the evolving geopolitical landscape at the global level. ASEM is indeed a platform where we can engage in discussions to reduce conflicts on the basis of international rules as well as the equal participation of all countries, no matter their size or economic heft. Multilateral dialogue based on equal partnership and the principle of the 3Ms, that is, mutual trust, mutual respect and mutual benefit, is essential for ASEM to thrive in the “Next Normal”.
Second is climate change. ASEM, comprising countries that are diverse both economically and socially, should support one another in safeguarding the climate in a balanced way through intensified cooperation on the exchange of green technology, enhancing green finance, and promoting the transition towards the use of clean energy. Thailand has adopted the Bio-Circular-Green, or BCG, economic model to advance economy without sacrificing our ecosystem. The Prime Minister mentioned his participation in the COP26 to speak about the BCG economic model, and the plan to incorporate it as one priority agenda item of the APEC meetings next year, for which Thailand will serve as host.
According to the Prime Minister, the two major changes are both man-made. Humans are therefore responsible for their own mistakes.  Adjusting the thought processes and raising awareness are needed for the survival of the planet and mankind.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/48764