รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand’s food security remains intact with adequate food for domestic consumption


วันเสาร์ที่ 23 กรกฎาคม 2565
พิมพ์
Thailand’s food security remains intact with adequate food for domestic consumption
Thailand’s food security remains intact with adequate food for domestic consumption
July 22, 2022, Deputy Government Spokesperson Ratchada Thanadirek affirmed about Thailand's food security situation, which has lately been a global concern and a problem almost 200 million people all over the world have been facing, that there are sufficient food and food products for the people in the country, both in carbohydrate, fat, and protein food groups, e.g., rice, tapioca, palm oil, egg layers, meat chicken, pigs, etc. Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperative has also prepared both short and long-term response measures for related raw materials, such as maize and soybean, which still need to be imported, in the case that the situation is worsening. So, the public can rest assured on the Government's management and preparedness in this regard.
On August 26, 2022, Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives will host the 7th APEC Virtual Food Security Ministerial Meeting, to affirm intent and commitment in promoting regional food security. At the meeting, Thailand will put forward agendas that support food security and "Thai Kitchen to the World" policy, while a declaration on APEC food security will be adopted.
Although Thailand is recognized as "Kitchen of the World", which means there is adequate amount of food for domestic consumption, the Government, through Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperative, has not stayed idle. Overall food security plan has been prepared and developed through the National Food Committee, whose duties are to identify food quality, food safety, food security and food education policies and strategies in all dimensions. At the same time, Thailand has turned crisis into opportunity to push ahead food and agro product export to other countries. According to agricultural export data, the import of Thai agro products during the first 5 months of 2022 (January-May 2022) has increased to 6.91 billion Baht or 26% from 548 billion Baht in 2021.
The Government’s “Kitchen of the World” policy is aimed to promote domestic food security, enhance food quality and nutritional standard, and expand the export of agro products in accordance with the concept of “marketing-led production”, which takes into consideration wide-ranging demand and taste of consumers in various markets. It is expected that agro-product export value considerably increases during the latter half of this year.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/57178