รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM expresses full support over organization of Sustainable Energy Technology Asia (SETA) 2022


วันจันทร์ที่ 15 สิงหาคม 2565
พิมพ์
PM expresses full support over organization of Sustainable Energy Technology Asia (SETA) 2022
PM expresses full support over organization of Sustainable Energy Technology Asia (SETA) 2022
August 14, 2022, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha expressed his support for the organization of Sustainable Energy Technology Asia (SETA) 2022 during September 20-22, 2022 at Bangkok International Trade & Exhibition Centre (BITEC), which is aimed to promote Thailand as regional hub for renewable energy technology, innovation, and development; to enhance cooperation between the country and the international counterparts, and to promote exchange of knowledge, technologies, and sustainable innovations in renewable energy.
SETA has been held annually since 2016, and is one of the largest and premier energy platforms in Thailand, showcasing technology, tradeshow, exhibition, summit and forum in broaden stream of global energy. SETA 2022 will focus on the transition to clean energy. Over 20,000 participants, and 350 exhibitors from over 70 countries are expected to attend SETA exhibition and forum, held within the area of over 30,000 square meters. The exhibition will be zoned according to specific technologies and knowledge, i.e., power, utilities, grid, IPP/SPP/VSPP, renewable energy, solar, energy storage, EV, charging system, and hydrogen. There will also be an exchange of business opportunity, and business matching between startups from all over the world. Other two events which will be held in parallel with SETA 2022 are SOLAR+STORAGE ASIA 2022, and ENLIT ASIA 2022. Those who are interested to attend may register at https://setaasia.com/registration/ or www.solarstorageasia.com/registration.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Prime Minister expressed full support for SETA 2022, which is not only a display of integrative effort of all concerned sectors, but also an opportunity for Thailand to demonstrate its capacity in terms of knowledge, technologies, and innovation on renewable energy. This will also be a good chance for the country to gain new knowledge for the development of national energy toward Thailand being a regional hub. Additionally, SETA 2022 is in line with the Government’s national agenda on the BCG economic model, especially on the use of renewable energy to promote sustainability and environmental friendliness.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/58037