รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM pleased with Thailand’s popularity as foreign filming location


วันจันทร์ที่ 11 เมษายน 2565
พิมพ์
​PM pleased with Thailand’s popularity as foreign filming location
​PM pleased with Thailand’s popularity as foreign filming location
April 10, 2022, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha is pleased with Thailand’s popularity among foreign filmmakers, as the country has been chosen as one of the top shooting locations. Filming industry is one of the 5Fs creative industries the Thai Government eyed on adding economic value in order to promote Thailand’s “soft power”, generate revenues, and create the country’s positive image. According to the Ministry of Tourism and Sports, following the Government’s ease of measures to allow foreign film/advertisement production in Thailand under the COVID-19 situation control, up to 196 movies have been filmed in the country during July 1, 2021 and March 16, 2022, among which 86 films from 33 countries have imported their own production crews. This generates over 4.24 billion Baht to the country.
Overall, top 5 countries that used Thailand as a filming location during the said period are India, France, Singapore, Switzerland. and United Kingdom, while the countries/territory that spent most for their filming production in Thailand are the U.S. (1.95 billion Baht), Australia (702 million Baht), and Hong Kong (616 million Baht) respectively.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Prime Minister handed down a policy to promote soft powers, through leveraging the artistic and creative skills of Thai people and the country’s cultural heritage to enhance economic value, in line with the BCG economic model. Fifteen fields of Thai creative industry, such as handicrafts, music, performing arts, movies, etc., will be promoted, while 5 potential cultural identities (5Fs) are to be highlighted, namely food, films, fashion, fighting (Muay Thai), and festivals.
The policy to promote Thailand as world-class filming location is another example of successful operation integration and cooperation of all concerned sectors. This not only generates revenues and enhance the country’s economic value, it is also an opportunity to showcase the beauty of Thai nature and cultural heritage, which would in turn attract foreign tourists once the COVID-19 situation eases.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/53510