รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Thailand-Hungary to promote cooperation in all dimensions including water management for agriculture


วันพุธที่ 23 กุมภาพันธ์ 2565
พิมพ์
​Thailand-Hungary to promote cooperation in all dimensions including water management for agriculture
​Thailand-Hungary to promote cooperation in all dimensions including water management for agriculture
February 21, 2022, at 13.30 hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Sándor Sipos, Ambassador of Hungary to Thailand, paid a courtescy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his assumption of the position. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed the Hungarian Ambassador to Thailand, and wished for his successful endeavor in promoting cooperation between Thailand and Hungary in the potential areas of mutual interest. He also thanked Hungary for constant support provided to Thailand under the EU framework, and congratulated Hungarian professor, Associate Professor Katalin Karikó, who is awarded the Prince Mahidol Award for 2021 for her work with mRNA, which led to the development of COVID-19 vaccines. The Prime Minister affirmed Thailand’s readiness to enhance bilateral and multilateral cooperation with Hungary.
The Hungarian Ambassador expressed honor to be tenured in Thailand. The 50th anniversary of diplomatic relations between Thailand and Hungary in 2023 would be a good opportunity for the two countries to build upon existing relations in all dimensions. He also expressed commitment to further strengthen relations and cooperation into the future, including economic cooperation in the areas of agro industry, food industry, and biotechnology.
Both parties also discussed the following key issues of mutual interest:
Medicine and public health: The Prime Minister expressed confidence that the two countries would be able to forge cooperation in vaccine development, alternative medicine, newly-emerging disease management, exchange of medical and public healthcare personnel, and medical R&D.
Exchange of high-level visits: Hungary proposed Hungarian Prime Minister’s official visit to Thailand to celebrate the 50th anniversary of diplomatic relations between Thailand and Hungary in 2023. The Prime Minister agreed and would be very pleased to welcome the Hungarian Prime Minister to the country.
Economic cooperation: Both parties agreed to hold the 3rd Thailand-Hungary Joint Commission on Economic Cooperation (JCEC) during the first half of 2022. The Prime Minister also extended an invitation to Hungarian businessmen to invest in the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC) in the areas of their expertise. Having visited the EEC earlier and realizing its potential, the Hungarian Ambassador agreed to help promote investment in the EEC among Hungarian investors to increase economic values between Thailand and Hungary.
Water management and agriculture: The Prime Minister congratulated cooperation progress in water management, following the 1st joint committee meeting, which was held in 2020. Both parties agreed to hold the next joint committee meeting this year, on which Hungary would further coordinate with Office of National Water Resources. The Hungarian Ambassador affirmed commitment to endorse the cooperation as Hungary has expertise in water management for agriculture and treated water utilization.
Education: The Prime Minister thanked Hungarian Government for having granted over 40 scholarships to Thai students per year since 2017, while the Hungarian Ambassador would be pleased to put forward the meeting of the Joint Commission on Scientific and Technological Cooperation to further develop educational system.
Sports cooperation: The Hungarian Ambassador was also pleased with sports cooperation with Thailand through Muay Thai trainings, which is world’s popular martial arts and sports. A training camp has been held the past December 2021. Hungary would like to further forge cooperation with Thailand on sports development.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/51840