รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM affirms Thailand’s commitment to cooperate with Japan in all aspects for mutual interests


วันศุกร์ที่ 15 ตุลาคม 2564
พิมพ์
PM affirms Thailand’s commitment to cooperate with Japan in all aspects for mutual interests
PM affirms Thailand’s commitment to cooperate with Japan in all aspects for mutual interests
October 14, 2021, at 1400hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Nashida Kazuya, Ambassador of Japan to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha to discuss relations and cooperation between Thailand and Japan in various aspects. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister congratulated Prime Minister Fumio Kishida for taking the office as Japan’s new prime minister, and affirmed Thailand’s readiness to continue to forge relations and advance cooperation with the Prime Minister and his government. He also expressed sincere appreciation toward the Japanese Government for providing support to Thailand in itsendeavor to mitigate the COVID-19 situation, which include donation of AstraZeneca vaccines, 868 oxygen concentrators, and medical equipment, and Japan’s assistance on cold chain system.
The Japanese Ambassador expressed appreciation toward the Thai Government for placing importance on forging relations and cooperation with Japan, and congratulated the country for the better situation of COVID-19. He is confident that under the Prime Minister’s leadership and policy, the Thai Government would be able to control the situation, continue to ease COVID-19 measures, and implement stimulus measures for economic rehabilitation. The Japanese Prime Minister has conveyed his regards to the Prime Minister and expressed readiness to push forward strategic cooperation in all dimensions to commemorate the 135th anniversary of the diplomatic relations between the two countries in 2022.
The Ambassador also inquired about the Government’s policy regarding Thailand’s reopening and list of the countries fromwhich the tourists would be allowed to enter Thailand with no quarantine requirements. The Prime Minister affirmed that Thailand would definitely consider Japan as one of the low-risk countries under the policy, and called on Japan to consider easing the measure to allow Thai citizens of various groups (businessmen, skilled workers, students, tourists) to enter the country as well.
With regard to multilateral relations, the Ambassador expressed confidence that Thailand, as the ASEAN-Japan Coordinator for 2021-2024, would help strengthen strategic partnership between the two parties. Japan also stands ready to support Thailand at the international stage, i.e., Thailand’s hosting of the APEC Summit, and establishment of the ASEAN Centre for Public Health Emergencies and Emerging Diseases (ACPHEED) in the country. The Prime Minister also affirmed Thailand’s commitment to cooperate with Japan in all aspects for mutual interests.
Toward the end of the meeting, the Prime Minister extended an invitation for Japanese private sector to make investment in Thailand as the country’s BCG economy is in line with Japan’s Green Growth Strategy. He also hoped to meet with the Japanese Prime Minister at the first opportunity.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/47035