รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The Government Spokesperson revealed that the Prime Minister praised all agencies involved in concretely pushing the soft power policy in the entertainment industry.


วันอังคารที่ 5 กรกฎาคม 2565
พิมพ์
The Government Spokesperson revealed that the Prime Minister praised all agencies involved in concretely pushing the soft power policy in the entertainment industry.
The Government Spokesperson revealed that the Prime Minister praised all agencies involved in concretely pushing the soft power policy in the entertainment industry.
July 5, 2022, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana revealed that Prime Minister and Minister of Defense, Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha, appreciated the relevant agencies that have contributed to Thailand's soft power policy in the entertainment industry in response to economic conditions in the tourism sector and attract international tourists to visit Thailand, which followed the series and entertainment content.
According to a government spokesperson, Japanese tourists were the most visited country in Thailand in November 2021 because of the trend of tourism following popular series, movies, and reality shows, it has led the Tourism Authority of Thailand (TAT) to organize a group tour to draw Japanese people who like the famous duo of the Y series or Boy's Love (BL), series constructive in Thailand, to travel to various locations which are also one factor in continuing to push soft power according to government policy.
The Y-Thai series is the market leader in the Y-series market in Japan. Thai BL Drama is currently gaining popularity in Japan, with more and more shows being imported every year since 2019, bringing the Japanese viewer base of the current Y-Thai series to over one million people.  Moreover, a tour to follow in the footsteps of Mew-Gulf, a duo with a member base of more than 20,000 Japanese fans, has been planned for June 10-14, 2022. The goal is to promote Soft Power by series Y in Thai tourism and stimulate the tourism industry market with a group of Japanese Y series fans. In this regard, the TAT has set an ambitious target of 1,000 tour package sales to Japanese tourists following in the footsteps of the Y Series in Thailand in 2022 and increasing to at least 5,000 in 2023.
However, TAT Tokyo Office, together with YD Creation, the production company of the Reality Show; The Bachelorette Japan Season 2 from Warner Brothers and Amazon Prime Japan, filmed the program "The Bachelorette Japan Season 2" in Chiang Mai, and it is yet another opportunity to disseminate tourist attractions, uniqueness, and Thainess through programs from other countries filmed in Thailand, with the reality show on air July 7, 2022, on Amazon Prime Japan's Prime Video platform, Japan's largest subscriber platform.
"The government is ready to work with all sectors to keep supporting soft power policy through entertainment media and promoting Thailand's creative industries around the world.  According to the culture promoting “5F” ; 1. Food, 2. Films, 3. Fashion, 4. Fighting, and 5. Festival, in order to build on Thai arts and culture, Thainess, and add value to the creative economy, and push "Soft Power" to be known and disseminated on a global scale," said Thanakorn

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/56542