รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The government is ready to listen to proposals from the National Fisheries Association of Thailand.


วันจันทร์ที่ 20 มิถุนายน 2565
The government is ready to listen to proposals from the National Fisheries Association of Thailand.
"The Prime Minister" assigned relevant agencies to consider the administration to be transparent and fair.
June 17, 2022, at 1330 hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House. The Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana revealed that Mr. Mongkol Sukcharoenkana, president of the National Fisheries Association of Thailand, along with the delegations, met with the Prime Minister and Minister of Defense Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha to present issues and follow up on progress in solving fishers' difficulties, together with explaining the facts about the Environmental Justice Foundation's policy summary report (Environmental Justice Foundation: EJF) that has been presented to the Thai government. Mr. Disat Hotrakit, Secretary-General to the Prime Minister, General Nattaphon Nakpanich, Advisor to the Prime Minister, Ms. Ratchada Thanadirek, Deputy Spokesman for the Prime Minister's Office, Mr. Teeraphat Prayurasit, Permanent Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office, Deputy Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, and Mr. Chalermchai Suwannarak, Director-General of the Department of Fisheries also joined the meeting, outlined the key points as follows:
The National Fisheries Association of Thailand delegation thanked the Prime Minister and the government for proceeding to help the fishers; in particular, fishers' loans were issued immediately after the Prime Minister ordered the relevant authorities. The National Fisheries Association of Thailand proposes the Thai government take action, such as asking for assistance on the revision of the entire fishery law, expediting the modification of the law (Ministry rules for issuing fishing licenses) to solve problems integrally and solving problems related to importing aquatic animals from abroad, etc.
On this occasion, the Prime Minister mentioned the progress towards solving problems for fishers. The government is also ready to listen to information and proposals from the National Fisheries Association of Thailand by assigning relevant departments, both the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives and the Department of Fisheries, to urgently consider these issues. In addition, the Prime Minister also spoke about supervising energy and oil prices. The government will do its best under the conditions that arise based on the interests of the people and the country as a priority.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/55899