รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM meets with Malaysian Minister of Foreign Affairs


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 11 สิงหาคม 2565
พิมพ์
​PM meets with Malaysian Minister of Foreign Affairs
​PM meets with Malaysian Minister of Foreign Affairs
August 9, 2022, at 15.30 hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, the Honourable Dato’ Sri Saifuddin Abdullah, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Malaysia, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed Malaysian Minister of Foreign Affairs, and conveyed his regards to the Prime Minister of Malaysia. He was also pleased with an increasing cooperation dynamism between the two countries, following the visit of Malaysian Prime Minister to Thailand early this year. A number of agreements have been translated into action, and cooperation in other areas is also expected to be driven toward tangible outcome. The meeting of Thailand-Malaysia Joint Commission (JC) and Thailand-Malaysia Committee on Joint Development Strategy for Border Areas (JDS) would be a good opportunity for the two countries to follow up on the cooperation progress, push ahead pending issues, and to seek new areas of cooperation on the basis of mutual interest.
The Prime Minister also affirmed readiness to attend the 7th Annual Consultation, and expressed hope for tangible success of the JC and JDS meetings, which could be taken forward at the meeting of the two Prime Ministers. The Malaysian Minister of Foreign Affairs expressed pleasure and honor to meet with the Prime Minister today. He has also conveyed the regards of Malaysian Prime Minister to the Prime Minister, and affirmed Malaysia’s commitment to strengthen post-COVID-19 relations and cooperation with Thailand.
Both parties also discussed issues of mutual interest:
The Prime Minister affirmed the Thai Government’s intent to provide full support to the people in the Southern-most provinces, especially in education and employment, which he believed would be in line with the Malaysian Government’s policy. He also expressed hope that the Malaysian counterpart would keep on supporting the Thai Government’s endeavor. The Minister of Foreign Affairs affirmed Malaysia’s commitment to continue its role in addressing the problem toward sustainable peace. Both parties also came to terms to exchange cooperation on technical training in the southernmost provinces in order to promote employment, and create revenues to the people of the two countries.
On trade and investment, the Prime Minister hoped that the two countries join hands in minimizing obstacles, and promoting trade and investment facilitation in a bid to achieve target trade value of US$30,000 in 2025. He added that Thailand has implemented the Thailand+1 policy with an aim to promote subregional and regional supply chain. Malaysian Minister of Foreign Affairs expressed pleasure that over 50% of mutual trade and investment activities takes place in the border area which would contribute to the revival of border trade and tourism atmosphere. He also hoped for the cooperation of Thailand and Malaysia to promote eternal peace.
The Prime Minister expressed confidence that through close cooperation between the two countries, Thailand and Malaysia would progress to growth, security, and prosperity, and would be immune against any future challenge.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/57905