รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM points out 3 key benefits ASEM people receive from 13th ASEM Summit


วันศุกร์ที่ 26 พฤศจิกายน 2564
พิมพ์
PM points out 3 key benefits ASEM people receive from 13th ASEM Summit
PM points out 3 key benefits ASEM people receive from 13th ASEM Summit
November 26, 2021, at 1900hrs, (Thialand) at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha delivered a statement via a teleconference as the Regional Coordinator for ASEAN at the Joint Press Conference of the 13th Asia-Europe Meeting. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist as follows:
The Prime Minister congratulated Cambodia on the successful hosting of the 13th Asia-Europe Meeting amidst great challenges. The Meeting has indeed shown the world that Asia and Europe are determined to uphold multilateralism to build a “Next Normal” world that is balanced, inclusive and sustainable. ASEM Leaders have demonstrated common intention to work together to strengthen multilateralism. Since the 1st ASEM Summit which took place in the ASEAN region, in Thailand 25 years ago, the global context and the challenges facing Asia and Europe have changed significantly. No country can tackle global challenges alone, whether they be climate change, major pandemics such as COVID-19, or international conflicts. Asia and Europe must instead join forces and cooperate through multilateralism, which gives all countries, big and small, the opportunity to play a role and, together, build mutual understanding and trust on the basis of equal partnership and mutual benefit.
According to the Prime Minister, one approach to strengthening multilateralism is to strive for a balance of all things, both in terms of international relations and addressing global challenges. Asia and Europe must learn from the crises and seek to prevent them from happening again so as to ensure human security for the people. He also pointed out 3 key benefits ASEM people would receive from this ASEM Summit:
First, ASEM will help to ensure a post-COVID-19 recovery that is inclusive and sustainable. The Meeting attached high importance to a balanced and environmentally-friendly recovery, the exchange of best practices, and giving all groups in society the opportunity to take part in building a post-COVID-19 world where people have security and wealth, and can be confident that crises caused by imbalance will not be repeated. In addition, both regions will strive to build a Next Normal world where science, technology and innovation as well as support to the business sector, especially SMEs, will form the key basis for growth. In this regard, the Prime Minister was pleased to join with other Leaders in adopting the Phnom Penh Statement on the Post-COVID-19 Socio-Economic Recovery.
Second, ASEM will help to bring our two regions closer together. The Summit adopted the document on “The Way Forward on ASEM Connectivity”, which is an initiative of the ASEAN Group, and provides a framework for connectivity cooperation in areas such as laws and regulations, trade and investment, the digital economy, and promoting people-to-people connectivity as well as travel between Asia and Europe. The Prime Minister believes that strengthening connectivity will form a good basis for possible future free trade agreements between the regions, which will help to boost employment and revitalize the tourism sector in both Asia and Europe.
Lastly, ASEM will help to enhance cooperation in the use of digital technology in the Next Normal era, bearing in mind both the benefits and harms of such technology, especially for the youth who have been particularly affected by school closures during the pandemic. In this regard, the Prime Minister gave an example of an ASEM initiative spearheaded by Thailand to promote the virtual exchange of students using digital technology. Not only did it provide opportunities for the youth in the two regions to meet through digital platforms, but it also helped them to broaden their horizons on important global issues such as the SDGs. He also believes that the youth of ASEM will be the key drivers of change in our world; and Thailand, as host of the ASEAN Education Ministers’ Meeting this December, is ready and willing to take forward this initiative in a concrete manner.
After the Joint Press Conference, the Prime Minister joined other leaders to adopt 3 outcome documents, namely, 1) 13th Asia-Europe Meeting Chair’s Statement; 2) Phnom Penh Statement on the Post-COVID-19 Socio-Economic Recovery; and 3) The Way Forward on ASEM Connectivity.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/48769