รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand commits to cooperate with UNCTAD in enhancing consumer protection standards through Voluntary Peer Review


วันอังคารที่ 19 กรกฎาคม 2565
Thailand commits to cooperate with UNCTAD in enhancing consumer protection standards through Voluntary Peer Review
Thailand commits to cooperate with UNCTAD in enhancing consumer protection standards through Voluntary Peer Review
July 19, 2022, at 1500hrs, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha delivered a pre-recorded remark at the Sixth Session of the Intergovernmental Group of Experts (IGE) on Competition Law and Policy (Voluntary Peer Review of Thailand), which was held by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD). Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of his remark as follows:
The Prime Minister first expressed pleasure and an honor to join the discussions with delegates from the Intergovernmental Group of Experts on Consumer Protection Law and Policy. The Voluntary Peer Review marks an important milestone for the Thai Government’s national development efforts and commitment to further improve its consumer protection policies in accordance with the internationally recognized United Nations Guidelines for Consumer Protection (UNGCP). The Prime Minister expressed Thailand’s pride to take part in the UNCTAD Voluntary Peer Review of Consumer Protection Law and Policy as the fifth country globally and the second member state in Asia. The Voluntary Peer Review is an opportunity for the Thai Government to reflect on how to re-examine and improve the existing framework of the country’s overall consumer protection laws and policies, involving more than 20 relevant agencies with the Office of the Consumer Protection Board serving as the national focal point.
The Prime Minister thanked assessors from Sweden, Mexico, and South Africa for their independent, constructive, and impartial policy recommendations, which will be of great benefit to Thailand’s efforts in enhancing consumer protection standards. This also opens up a new chapter of cooperation in the exchange of information on consumer protection among countries with substantial assistance from UNCTAD.
Today’s voluntary peer review exercise is a testament to how a deepening partnership is integral to the protection of consumers’ rights in line with the United Nations Guidelines for Consumer Protection that recommends the Member States and their respective consumer protection enforcement agencies to “make use of existing international networks and enter into appropriate bilateral and multilateral arrangements and other initiatives to implement these guidelines.”
The Prime Minister also underscored the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, from which governments and consumer protection agencies around the world can draw important lessons and turn it into an opportunity for a concerted push towards the need to develop innovative consumer protection practices and policies that are most compatible with the current global situation. This should also address unfair business practices, prevent market distortions, and better protect consumers so they are well-informed and ready to adapt to the new normal taking shape around them. In addition, it is also key to building trust between consumers and investors for post-pandemic economic recovery.
The Prime Minister affirmed his recognition of the critical role the UNCTAD Competition and Consumer Protection branch can play in advancing work on consumer protection within the general framework of the United Nations Guidelines for Consumer Protection, thanks to its expertise and extensive experience. A large number of projects have been carried out to provide capacity-building support to several member countries on strengthening consumer protection mechanisms through a wide range of policy tools and technical cooperation.  For these reasons, the Office of the Consumer Protection Board did not hesitate to take part in this UNCTAD cooperation program to further align Thailand’s existing consumer protection process with international standards.
Following the completion of the review, the Office of the Consumer Protection Board plans to upgrade its online dispute resolution process initiated by the Thai Government in 2019. This year, Thailand will also harness the potential of blockchain technology to ensure that consumers have more timely, transparent, equitable and fairer access to public services at no charge.
The Prime Minister was pleased to learn that UNCTAD’s project entitled “Delivering digital trading infrastructure and online dispute resolution for consumers as means to improve international trade and electronic commerce” will render support to Thailand. The country’s determination to develop online dispute resolution processes is also an important goal in ASEAN towards building a unified network of online dispute resolution systems in all ten Member States by 2025 as reflected in the ASEAN Guidelines on Online Dispute Resolution.
In closing, the Prime Minister extended appreciation to the China Silk Road Group and the UNCTAD for their continued technical support. He also thanked the peer reviewers, namely the National Board for Consumer Disputes of Sweden, the Federal Consumer Attorney of Mexico and the National Consumer Tribunal of South Africa for their insightful contributions, whose participation today will certainly allow Thailand to achieve the planned objectives of this Voluntary Peer Review. He also expressed hope that this will only be the beginning of the very promising international partnerships that will make Thailand’s consumer protection processes more effective for years to come.
……………….
The Intergovernmental Group of Experts (IGE) on Competition Law and Policy is aimed to provide UN member states with a framework for international operation and exchange of best practices on consumer protection. In 2015, all member States and competition agencies were invited to assist UNCTAD on a voluntary basis by providing experts or other resources for future and follow-up activities in connection with voluntary peer reviews and their recommendations. Voluntary Peer Review of Thailand will be conducted by the Intergovernmental Group of Experts on Consumer Protection Law and Policy from Sweden, Mexico, and South Africa, in Geneva, the Swiss Confederation during July 18-19, 2022.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/57034