รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM pleased with Bangkok being awarded as best city in Asia Pacific


วันจันทร์ที่ 21 มีนาคม 2565
PM pleased with Bangkok being awarded as best city in Asia Pacific
PM pleased with Bangkok being awarded as best city in Asia Pacific
March 21, 2022, Government Spokesperson ThanakornWangboonkongchana disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha was reported that Bangkok has been awarded as the best city by “DestinAsian 2022 Readers’ Choice Awards”. The DestinAsian, a travel and lifestyle magazine in the Asia-Pacific region, took the surveys from the readers, and came up with the list of best cities in the Asia Pacific, of which the top 5 are: Bangkok, Singapore, Tokyo, Hong Kong, and Seoul. Bangkok has been named the “Best City” once in 2020.
This year, another two Thai destinations, Phuket and Ko Samui, were also popular among the DestinAsian readers, taking the 3rdand 4th place in the "Best Islands” category, respectively. They are ranked behind Ko Bali and Maldives. Suvarnabhumi International Airport also ranks 3rd under the best airportcategory, and THAI Airways’ Royal Orchid Plus program has been awarded 4th for 'Best Frequent Flier Program'.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the survey forDestinAsian Readers’ Choice Awards has consecutively been conducted for over 10 years to look at the top destinations, airlines, sealines, cities and islands in the Asia-Pacific region. For this year’s awards, the survey was taken from the DestinAsian readers of September- October 2021 and Online Editions.
The Prime Minister is pleased with the survey result, which shows that Thailand has always been one of the top destinations among global tourists. The Government’s effort to ease measures on entering into the Kingdom is expected to add a plus point to the confidence of global tourists and facilitate their travel to Thailand. The private sector and concerned agencies are urged to seek opportunity to grow and present the world with Thailand’s potentials and distinguishedness as leader of global tourism industry.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/52769