รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-40 CEOs to work together with Govt in leading Thailand out of COVID-19 crisis


วันศุกร์ที่ 23 กรกฎาคม 2564
พิมพ์
40 CEOs to work together with Govt in leading Thailand out of COVID-19 crisis
40 CEOs to work together with Govt in leading Thailand out of COVID-19 crisis
July 21, 2021, at 1420hrs, at PMOC Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha presided over a meeting via teleconference with the Chamber of Commerce and Board of Trade of Thailand, and 40 CEOs from the country’s leading firms to discuss possible cooperation between the public and private sectors in response to the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister thanked representatives of the private sector for convening today to help the Government in tackling with the increasingly threatening COVID-19 pandemic. The Government has not stayed idle and strived to solve the problem in an inclusive manner. As of July 20, 2021, over 14 million doses of vaccine have been given to the public. Various assistance/remedy measures have also been implemented, such as soft loans, consumption stimulus measures (e.g., Half-Half scheme with the spending of over 33 billion Baht so far), and stimulus measures for tourism and related businesses (i.e., Phuket Sandbox, Samui Model Plus). The Chamber of Commerce and Board of Trade of Thailand and private sector have also given useful advices to the Government, some of which were immediately brought into action. The Prime Minister also emphasized that Thailand is now facing with serious challenges, and there is a need to reduce conflict, and create awareness through proactive PR, as both the Government and the private sector share the same goal, which is, to lead the country out of this crisis.
Chairman of the Chamber of Commerce and Board of Trade of Thailand, on behalf of the 40 CEOs, expressed appreciation toward the Prime Minister for convening the meeting, and proposed 4 key agendas as follows:
1. Disease control: 25 non-hospital vaccination centers, co-administered by the private sector and Bangkok Metropolitan Administration (BMA), could alleviate hospital burden with the total vaccination capacity of 80,000 persons/day. The Private sector also stands ready to provide medical equipment, i.e., rapid tests, medicines, beds, and ICU units, and support home isolation measures through TeleMed technology and various platforms.
2. Remedies for businesses and people: extension of assistance measures, and labor shortage problem solving were proposed
3. Implementation of short and medium-term economic stimulus schemes: to stimulate spending among high income earners and those with high purchasing power, promote private investments to boost employments, and to prepare Thailand for the New Economy.
4. National rehabilitation: turning crisis into an opportunity through establishing a joint state-private committee to mobilize high-impact activities that yield great benefits to the people, e.g., modern agriculture, and quality tourism, etc., and enhancing economic capacity and competitiveness with digital transformation.
Given the fact that the Government has to work with difficulty under extremely volatile situation, Chairman of the Chamber of Commerce and Board of Trade of Thailand gave the Prime Minister moral support and the private sector’s commitment to support the Government’s endeavors.
The Prime Minister thanked them in return, and stated that their proposals were in line with the Government’s policies. He also emphasized that all sides have to work together in ensuring public understanding, and reducing conflict. The Government’s policy to reopen the country in 120 days remains committed. The private sector’s proposals would be brought into consideration by the cabinet and CCSA.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/44059