รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand and Swiss Confederation to further strengthen relations and cooperation as important economic partners


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 7 กรกฎาคม 2565
พิมพ์
Thailand and Swiss Confederation to further strengthen relations and cooperation as important economic partners
Thailand and Swiss Confederation to further strengthen relations and cooperation as important economic partners
July 6, 2022, at 1130hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mrs. Helene Budliger Artieda, Ambassador of the Swiss Confederation to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of her completion of tenure. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister commended close and long-standing relations between Thailand and the Swiss Confederation with regular exchange of visits at all levels. The year 2021 also marked the 90th anniversary of the diplomatic relations. Despite the COVID-19 situation, cooperation between the two countries have continued to be mobilized in various areas, i.e., consular cooperation through the 1st Thailand-Switzerland Consular Dialogue, and the climate change cooperation on which both parties have signed the world’s first country-to-country cooperation pact under the Paris Agreement to enable Switzerland to offset carbon emissions through climate projects in Thailand. The Prime Minister thanked the Swiss Ambassador for her active role in promoting relations and cooperation throughout the time of her tenure, and congratulated her for the new position. He hoped that the Swiss Ambassador would continue to take on the role to promote cooperation between the two countries even after her tenure in Thailand.
The Swiss Ambassador expressed pleasure to meet with the Prime Minister again. Throughout the three years of her tenure in Thailand, the ambassador has gained good experiences and happiness. Not only that Thailand is popular, as a short-term tourist destination, among the Swiss people, a large number of Swiss citizens have become long-term residents in Thailand. The Ambassador also thanked the Thai Government for taking good care of and supporting the Swiss citizens, and expressed confidence on an increase of Swiss tourists after the COVID-19 measures have been relaxed. The Thai Government’s policy to approved a long-term visa (10 years) for ‘high-potential’ foreigners, could also attract more Swiss citizens to stay long term, especially in the Northeastern and Northern Thailand, Pattaya, and the country’s various islands. The Prime Minister affirmed the Government’s commitment to support and facilitate Swiss tourists and citizens in Thailand.
Both parties were also pleased with strong economic cooperation. The Swiss Confederation is Thailand’s important economic partner with considerable trade and investment value. The Prime Minister was of the view that there are much more potentials for the two countries to increase mutual trade and investment, and extended his invitation for Swiss investors to consider investing in the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC) in the new S-Curve industries, such as food for the future, affluent, medical and wellness tourism, and medical hub. He also thanked the Swiss Confederation for endorsing renewal of FTA negotiation between Thailand and the European Free Trade Association (EFTA).
On tourism cooperation, the Prime Minister emphasized that the Government has eased entry measures and revoked Thailand Pass to facilitate foreign tourists. He hoped that people-to-
people relations between the two countries would be strengthened through the visit of Swiss tourists to Thailand. The Prime Minister also congratulated the Swiss Confederation for being elected as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council (UNSC) for 2023-2024, and expressed confidence that the country would take on a strong and active role in promoting world peace.
After the meeting, the Swiss Ambassador invited the Prime Minister to try driving her EV, as the Thai Government has placed importance on EV promotion.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/56653