รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Govt to promote Udon Thani province as hub of GMS


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 2 ธันวาคม 2564
พิมพ์
Govt to promote Udon Thani province as hub of GMS
Govt to promote Udon Thani province as hub of GMS
December 1, 2021, at 11.00 hrs, at Monthathip Hall, Muang district, Udon Thani, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha presided over the meeting with Udon Thani public and private sectors to discuss the province’s development direction. Participating in the meeting were Deputy Prime Minister Gen. Prawit Wongsuwon, Deputy Prime Minister and Energy Minister Supattanapong Punmeechaow, and other concerned ministers. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The meeting discussed: 1) transport and logistics system, especially the Bangkok-Nong Khai high-speed train, and preparation for the China- Lao PDR- Thailand transport network development; 2) trade and investment, and tourism trends. Udon Thani has been designated as one of the ‘Blue Zone' destinations under “Udon Plus Model” scheme, which means businesses can continue to open for tourism with the “New Normal” operations; 3) Udon Thani’s preparation for the hosting of International Horticultural Exposition in 2026 (November 1, 2026- March 14, 2027) to be held at Muang district’s Nongdae Wetlands; and 4) perspectives, role, and networking of the province’s new generation entrepreneurs.
According to the Prime Minister, the Government is well aware of Udon Thani’s potential as hub of the GMS, and approved budgets to support the province’s infrastructure development in various aspects, be it, 1) construction of the Bangkok-Nong Khai high-speed train, passing Udon Thani, and linking with the China–Laos railway; 2) expansion of Udon Thani airport; 3) expansion of Highway No. 3 (Udon Thani- Nong Khai section) to 6 lanes; and 4) construction of a new Udon Thani- Bueng Kan main road linking the 5th Thai-Lao Friendship Bridge (Bueng Kan- Bolikhamxay).
The Prime Minister commended local investors for establishing an industrial estate in Udon Thani, which is the first of its kind in the Northeastern region. The Government will provide support by connecting a rail route and main roads with the industrial estate to further facilitate its transport and logistics activities. He also emphasized the need to upskill the labors to keep up with new technologies. On tourism, the Prime Minister congratulated Udon Thani for being upgraded to one of the country’s major tourist destinations, and for being designated as a MICE city since 2020. He also supported the province’s hosting of the International Horticultural Exposition in 2026.
Representatives of Udon Thani’s private sector and civil society thanked the Prime Minister and the Government for successfully implementing various projects that benefit Udon Thani and the Northeastern region, which could elevate the province as hub of the GMS. Representatives of the new generation entrepreneurs under the Young Entrepreneurs Udon Thani Chamber of Commerce (YEC) program also expressed appreciation toward the Prime Minister for giving them the opportunity to share views and perspectives on the development of Udon Thani, and for promoting the growing of high-value crops in lieu of crop rotation to increase farmers’ earning. The Prime Minister commended the idea of YEC, which is in line with the Government’s policy, to increase wellbeing and quality of life of the farmers. He also called for the new generations to adhere to the country’s three pillars, that is, nation, religion, and monarchy, stop the conflict, and turn crisis into opportunity for Thailand to be further strengthened.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/48998