รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM pleased with success and popularity of Thailand Pavilion at “World Expo 2020 Dubai”


วันจันทร์ที่ 25 เมษายน 2565
​PM pleased with success and popularity of Thailand Pavilion at “World Expo 2020 Dubai”
​PM pleased with success and popularity of Thailand Pavilion at “World Expo 2020 Dubai”
April 25, 2022, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha was reported on and congratulated the success and popularity of Thailand Pavilion at the “World Expo 2020 Dubai”, held in Dubai, UAE. Thailand Pavilion was set up under theme: "Mobility for the Future", and ranked 4th as the most visited pavilions among 192 countries exhibited at the Expo. Ministry of Digital Economy and Society's Digital Economy Promotion Agency (DEPA), the core agency responsible for Thailand Pavilion, disclosed that throughout the organization period of the World Expo 2020 Dubai (October 1, 2021- March 31, 2022), Thailand Pavilion was visited by over 2.35 million people, or 9.8% of all the attendees, which exceeded the target set at 7%. According to Google Public Review, only the pavilions of Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, and UAE were ahead of Thailand in terms of popularity.
In addition to its popularity, the Thailand Pavilion received an Honourable Mention in the Editor's Choice Award category from Exhibitor magazine, which has been widely recognised within the exhibition industry worldwide. According to a visitor survey, 82% of visitors also preferred Thailand Pavilion to the other pavilions, while 92% said they wanted to travel to Thailand after visiting the exhibition.
The Government Spokesperson added that the Prime Minister thanked all concerned agencies, both public and private sectors, for joining forces in demonstrating Thailand's potential at the international stage. He also commended the commitment and dedication of over 60 staffs and youths who manned the Pavilion. Participating in the World Expo 2020 Dubai also paved ways for Thai SMEs entrepreneurs to promote potential Thai products in the Middle Eastern region, which could be the distribution center to the nearby regions.
The World Expo is the 3rd largest world event, following the Olympics and the FIFA's World Cup. The event is held once every 5 years to provide an opportunity for countries around the world to showcase their potential in both architecture, fine arts, and technology, and to promote trade and investment. It is also an opportunity for Thailand to present its soft power which has been placed importance by the Prime Minister, i.e., Thai identities, music, performances, and food.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/53880