รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Cabinet approves measures to alleviate people’s burden on utility bills


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 15 กรกฎาคม 2564
พิมพ์
Cabinet approves measures to alleviate people’s burden on utility bills
Cabinet approves measures to alleviate people’s burden on utility bills
Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that the cabinet, in its meeting on July 13, 2021, approved the measures to reduce electricity and tap water charges for 2 months, gist of which is as follows:
1. Reduction of electricity charges for July-August 2021, on a February-bill basis:
a. Households
i. Waiving of the first 90 units of electricity for households that consume less than 150units/month
ii. Households that consume over 150 units/months, but less than or equal to actual usage charged in February 2021, must pay according to the actual usage. In the case that they consume more than that of February but not over 500 units, they may pay the same amount as their February bill. Electricity usage of 501-1,000 units/month will be charged the amount equal to the February bill plus 50% of additional units consumed. Households that consume over 1,000 units/month will have to pay the amount equal to the February bill plus 70% of additional units consumed. All charges are exclusive of VAT.
b. Small-scale businesses (excluding public agencies and state enterprises)
i. The first 100 units of electricity will be waived.
c. Medium and Large-scale businesses, specific businesses, NGOs, and water pumping for agricultural purposes
i. Exemption of the minimum charge until December 2021, while the demand charge is to be paid according to actual usage of electricity
2. Reduction of tap water charges
a. 10% deduction of tap water bill for 2 months (August-September 2021) for households and small-scale businesses (excluding public agencies and state enterprises)
For the implementation of the measures above, MEA, PEA, MWA, and PWA may request for the subsidy of not over 12 billion Baht in total.
On assistance measures related to educational expenses, the cabinet today has assigned Ministry of Education, and Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation to discuss with schools and universities under their supervision on possible guideline for reduction of tuition fee for the 1st semester of 2021 academic year, as a special case. They were also ordered to develop a proposal on the Government’s partial subsidy to educational institutions, to besubmitted to the cabinet next week. Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank of Thailand were also assigned to look into possible financial assistance to private schools that are financially struggling.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/43774