รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-TEST & GO scheme to resume on Feb 1 while PM hands down policy to promote Thailand’s soft power


วันอังคารที่ 1 กุมภาพันธ์ 2565
พิมพ์
TEST & GO scheme to resume on Feb 1 while PM hands down policy to promote Thailand’s soft power
TEST & GO scheme to resume on Feb 1 while PM hands down policy to promote Thailand’s soft power
January 31, 2022, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that the Thai Government, under the policy direction of Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha, has made approval to the resumption of the TEST & GO scheme from February 1, 2022 onward. All concerned agencies are now ready to receive overseas travelers under highest level of public health measures.
Suvarnabhumi Airport, which is the frontline zone, has been prepared to welcome and accommodate an increase of travelers once again under the “covid free setting”. Ministry of Public Health has also closely collaborated with the Tourism Council of Thailand (TCT) to ensure strict implementation of public health measures and to develop response plan against future recurrence of the pandemic.
According to the Government Spokesperson, it is expected that approx. 200,000- 300,000 travelers will enter into Thailand in February, about the same number as in December 2021, and is likely to increase in March. According to the Washington Post, Thailand is one of the most popular tourist destinations in 2022 among the Americans. It stated that although traveler interest in Asia is extremely low compared to pre-pandemic times, travel advisers are beginning to see more requests for Thailand. They are especially interested in wellness tours with activities such as yoga and Muay Thai training.
In order to attract more tourists, the Prime Minister has handed down a policy to promote Thailand’s soft power, i.e., sports, food, movies, music, performances, arts, which would add value to the country’s creative economy. In addition to boosting the country’s positive image, soft power will also generate considerable revenues to the country. The Prime Minister also emphasized promotion of Thai cultural elements of 5Fs (flexibility, fun, full flavors, friendliness, and life-fulfilling), and wellness tourism where Thailand has high potentials. All concerned agencies are instructed to work in an integrative manner, and develop clear targets and promotion plans. Thai people are also urged to be a good host and take pride in the “Thainess”, while the Government strives to implement policies that are most beneficial to the country and people.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/51142