รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with Brazilian Ambassador


วันอาทิตย์ที่ 1 สิงหาคม 2564
พิมพ์
PM meets with Brazilian Ambassador
PM meets with Brazilian Ambassador
July 29, 2021, at 14.30 hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mrs. Ana Lucy Gentil Cabral Petersen, Ambassador of Kingdom of the Netherlands to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha cha on occasion of hercompletion of tenure. Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister commended long-standing and cordial relations between Thailand and Brazil, and thanked the Ambassador for her active role in tightening mutual relations throughout her tenure, including organizing of activities to celebrate the 60th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the two countries.
The Brazilian Ambassador expressed appreciation toward thePrime Minister for this meeting, and congratulated close trade cooperation between Thailand and Brazil which has continued to increase in value even during the COVID-19 pandemic. She also called for Thailand to push forward bilateral agreement negotiation toward tangible outcome, and support Brazil in its application to become ASEAN’s Sectoral Dialogue Partner, which would further enhance cooperation between Brazil and ASEAN member countries.
Both parties also exchanged views on COVID-19 situation administration and vaccine management. The Prime Minister conveyed his well wishes to Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro, and hoped that Thailand and Brazil would later join forces in implementing rehabilitation policy to focus on creating balances between economic recovery and public health measures. He also commended Brazil for ranking 4th in the world for most COVID-19 vaccination. The Brazilian Ambassador affirmed her commitment to promote Phuket Sandbox and Samui Plustourism scheme to Brazilian tourists.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/44331