รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand and Morocco to foster relations and cooperation in all dimensions


วันอังคารที่ 19 เมษายน 2565
พิมพ์
Thailand and Morocco to foster relations and cooperation in all dimensions
Thailand and Morocco to foster relations and cooperation in all dimensions
April 18, 2022, at 1330hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Abderrahim Rahhaly, Ambassador of the Kingdom of Morocco to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his assumption of the position. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed the Moroccan Ambassador to Thailand, and commended the Ambassador’s past accomplishments which reflect his experiences and expertise. He expressed confidence that the Ambassador would play an important role in promoting relations and cooperation between the two countries, and the Thai Government stands ready to support his endeavors for mutual interest. Morocco is Thailand’s important friend in Africa. Post-COVID-19 cooperation is hoped to be strengthened in a bid to increase GDP of both Thailand and Morocco. The Prime Minister also thanked Morocco for supporting Thailand in the international arena, especially under the IOC framework.
The Moroccan Ambassador expressed appreciation for the warm welcome, and hoped to be a part on increasing the dynamism of Thailand-Morocco cooperation for mutual interest. He also endorsed the organization of the 3rd Political Consultations (PC) in Thailand, and took the opportunity of Thai traditional New Year to wish the Prime Minister and all the Thai people happiness and healthiness.
Both parties also discussed other issues of mutual interest:
On trade and investment, Morocco is Thailand’s important trade partner in North Africa, as mutual trade value has increased by over 24% in 2021. Thailand and Morocco could become each other’s trade gateway to ASEAN and Africa respectively, and the Ambassador expressed hope that private sector of the two countries could take part in a meeting on trade agreement between the two countries. The Prime Minister affirmed the Government’s support for Thai investment in Morocco, and vice versa. Should the Moroccan private sector be interested, the Thai Government stands ready to facilitate their investment in Thailand.
On education and technical cooperation, the Prime Minister thanked the Moroccan Government for regularly provide scholarships to Thai students, especially for the imam training program. Thai Ministry of Foreign Affairs would be pleased to liaise with Morocco, if the country would like to further forge cooperation in any other field of education with Thailand. The Prime Minister also commended Morocco for its notable middle path Islamism which places importance on fostering tolerance and peaceful coexistence among people with different identities, races, and religions.
Both parties also came to terms to expand tourism cooperation. Potential tourism activities will be promoted to restore economy and enhance people-to-people relations. On energy cooperation, the Prime Minister commended Morocco’s policy on alternative energy, which is in line with Thailand’s BCG economic model.
The Moroccan Ambassador took the opportunity to endorse Thailand’s 2022 APEC chairmanship under the theme “Open. Connect. Balance.”, and expressed confidence that hosting of APEC in 2022 would showcase full potentials of Thailand and its people.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/53706