รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM instructs BOI to quickly implement relief measures for SMEs


วันพุธที่ 8 กันยายน 2564
พิมพ์
PM instructs BOI to quickly implement relief measures for SMEs
PM instructs BOI to quickly implement relief measures for SMEs
September 6, 2021, t 0930hrs, at PMOC Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha chaired the 3/2021 virtual meeting of the Board of Investment (BOI). Participating in the meeting were Deputy Prime Minister and Energy Minister Supattanapong Punmeechaow, Finance Minister Arkhom Termpittayapaisith, and other concerned officials. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
According to the Prime Minister, the Government strives to help out SMEs and business sector through BOI’s investment privileges and measures, which should be implemented as soon as possible as no one knows when the COVID-19 pandemic would subside. The measures to be implemented must be result-based, transparent, fair, and accountable. What must be focused is to ensure there is no more layoff, and to increase worker engagement with machinery. The Prime Minister emphasized that everyone moves forward together. Not only must we vie for Human Development 4.0 and Industry 4.0, but also for Mentality 4.0 in order to move ahead.
The meeting has made approval to the following issues:
1. Approved measures to mitigate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and to support domestic development of vaccines and medicines through extension of the period allowed to obtain international certification or other equivalent standards, and permission to temporarily halt business operation for more than two months
2. Approved investment measures for sustainable environmental management
3. Approved capacity enhancement of battery electric vehicle, battery electric tricycle and battery electric bus manufacturing businesses, and investment promotion for electric bicycle, or e-bike manufacturers
The meeting also granted investment promotion to Glow Energy Public Company Limited for electricity and steam production expansion using the cogeneration system, with the total investment value of 6.046 billion Baht (excluding land and working capital worth 5.568 billion Baht). The location is at the Map Ta Phut Industrial Estate in Rayong province.
Investment promotion overview for the first six months of 2021 was also acknowledged at the meeting, with the number of projects up by 14%. Out of 801 investment promotion applications, 232 (29%) are in the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC). Investment funds rose by 158%, totaling 386.2 billion Baht. Out of the total investment funds, 126.64 billion Baht (33%) is invested in the EEC.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/45622