รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM commends Employment Project for People with Social Disabilities for improving quality of life of PWDs


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 3 มีนาคม 2565
พิมพ์
​PM commends Employment Project for People with Social Disabilities for improving quality of life of PWDs
​PM commends Employment Project for People with Social Disabilities for improving quality of life of PWDs
March 1, 2022, at 08.30 hrs, at Santi Maitri Building, Government House, prior to the weekly cabinet meeting, Minister of Labor Suchart Chomklin led the delegation of Ministry’s executives, private employers, and people with disabilities employees under the 2022 “Employment Project for People with Social Disabilities”, to pay a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha to expressed appreciation toward the Prime Minister and the Government for their support. The project is aimed to improve the quality of life of people with disabilities, to reduce inequality, and enhance opportunities to enable people with disabilities in Thailand to have access to welfare and government services, allowing them to have a career to support themselves and their families with dignity, facing no discrimination. The project is in line with the Prime Minister’s policy to propel the country toward “security, prosperity, and sustainability” without leaving anyone behind. Also attending the meeting were Deputy Prime Minister Gen. Prawit Wongsuwon, Minister of Interior Gen. Anupong Paojinda, and Prime Minister’s Secretary General Dissathat Hotrakit. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister listened to the briefing of the project with interest, and greeted participating employers and PWDs employees. Mr. Watcharaphon Dochana and Mr. Manochai Tangsuwan, participants with autism, presented a drawing of the Prime Minister, and a photoshop portrait of Deputy Prime Minister Gen. Prawit Wongsuwon respectively.
The “Employment Project for People with Social Disabilities” is another project implemented by the Department of Employment to promote PWDs employment and empowerment. The original target is to secure 1,000 work positions for socially disabled people, but so far 1,450 have been employed, which has generated 165,655,250 Baht/year in revenue. The goal now is to increase PWDs employment and revenue by 20% per year within the next 4 years of the project implementation.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/52146