รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand and Maldives to reinforce relations and cooperation in trade and investment, and tourism


วันอังคารที่ 21 ธันวาคม 2564
พิมพ์
Thailand and Maldives to reinforce relations and cooperation in trade and investment, and tourism
Thailand and Maldives to reinforce relations and cooperation in trade and investment, and tourism
December 20, 2021, at 1100hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Mohamed Jinah, Ambassador of the Republic of Maldives to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his assumption of the position. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed the Maldivian Ambassador to Thailand, and affirmed the Thai Government’s full support. As Thailand and Maldives have been forging diplomatic relations for over 40 years, he hoped for further reinforcement of relations and cooperation, especially in the areas of trade and investment, tourism, and multilateral cooperation. The Prime Minister also congratulated Foreign Minister of the Maldives for being elected as President of the 76th session of the General Assembly (UNGA76).
The Maldivian Ambassador expressed pleasure and honor to be tenured in Thailand, and conveyed President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih’s regards to the Prime Minister. Thailand is considered Maldives’ important trade partner, and the Ambassador affirmed his commitment to continue cooperating in the fields of mutual potentials. He also commended the Thai Government, under the Prime Minister’s leadership, for its effective response against COVID-19, which has led to the country’s reopening.
On economic cooperation, the Prime Minister recognized Maldives as Thailand’s major investment destination in the areas of properties, hotels, and resorts. Recently, a Thai investor has also made investment in solar power in the Maldives. The Ambassador appreciated investments from Thailand, and affirmed the Maldivian Government’s commitment to fully facilitate Thai investors.
On tourism, the Ambassador thanked Thailand for allowing Maldivian tourists to enter the country without being quarantined. With regard to technical and development cooperation, the Prime Minister affirmed Thailand’s continued assistance to Maldives in human resource development through short and long-course trainings, and in such areas as public health, agriculture, food security, and human capacity enhancement. The Maldivian Ambassador expressed appreciation toward the Thai Government for their continuous help, and would be pleased to help promote Thai education institutions among the Maldivians.
Both parties also discussed fishery cooperation, on which the Prime Minister affirmed Thailand’s continued cooperation through Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/49721