รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand and Kenya to celebrate 55th anniversary of diplomatic relations through strengthening relations and cooperation


วันอังคารที่ 11 มกราคม 2565
พิมพ์
Thailand and Kenya to celebrate 55th anniversary of diplomatic relations through strengthening relations and cooperation
Thailand and Kenya to celebrate 55th anniversary of diplomatic relations through strengthening relations and cooperation
January 10, 2022, at 1400hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Kiptiness Lindsay Kimwole, Ambassador of the Republic of Kenya to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his assumption of the position. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed the Kenyan Ambassador, and expressed hopes that both countries further forge relations and cooperation in various areas to celebrate the 55th anniversary of the diplomatic relations this year. He is certain that the Ambassador’s well-rounded experiences would enhance cooperation between Thailand and Kenya in a tangible and comprehensive manner. The Kenyan Ambassador expressed appreciation for the meeting and his pleasure to be tenured in Thailand. He also affirmed commitment to play an active role in constructively strengthening cordial relations and cooperation.
The two parties discussed the issues of mutual interest:
On public health, Thailand is ready to cooperate with Kenya in fighting against the COVID-19 and future communicable diseases, and in providing scholarships and trainings to Kenyan public healthcare personnel on universal health coveragedevelopment. Kenya also hopes for technology transfer and knowledge sharing on COVID-19 vaccine manufacturing for domestic use.
With regard to trade and investment, the Prime Minister is pleased that Kenya is Thailand’s top trade partner from East Africa, and hopes for an increasing trade and investment activities between the two countries. Thailand and Kenya have potential to become each other’s trade gateway to ASEAN and Africa respectively. The Kenyan Ambassador affirmed Kenya’s support for Thai investors, and hopes that the Thai Government would also facilitate Kenyan investment in Thailand.
Both parties agreed to promote education, academic, and development cooperation. Thailand stands ready to forge academic cooperation with Kenya in the fields of its potential in the form of short-term trainings and graduate-degree scholarships, which will be under the responsibility of Thailand Incentive and Convention Association (TICA).
The Prime Minister and Kenyan Ambassador also came to terms on promotion of green economy. The Thai Government has placed importance on the implementation of BCG economic development model, which is in line with Kenya’s Blue Economy that prioritizes sustainable utilization of its ocean and marine resources.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/50403