รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM was delighted Travel + Leisure rated Bangkok the Best Cities, while Phuket and Samui were also ranked 1st and 2nd in the Best Islands in Southeast Asia.


วันจันทร์ที่ 4 กรกฎาคม 2565
PM was delighted Travel + Leisure rated Bangkok the Best Cities, while Phuket and Samui were also ranked 1st and 2nd in the Best Islands in Southeast Asia.
PM was delighted after Travel + Leisure rated Bangkok as the Best Cities in Southeast Asia, while Phuket and Samui were also ranked 1st and 2nd in the Best Islands in Southeast Asia.
On July 4, 2022, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana revealed that Prime Minister and Minister of Defense Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha was delighted after the travel website, Travel + Leisure, rated Bangkok as the number one of the Best Cities in Southeast Asia (Best Cities in Southeast Asia 2022), as well as Phuket and Koh Samui were rated the most impressive islands in Southeast Asia (Best Islands in Southeast Asia 2022) in 1st and 2nd place, respectively.
The Government Spokesperson added that Thailand continues to be a favorite destination for tourists worldwide this year.  After the travel website Travel + Leisure disclosed the vote results from tourists around the world, in the Best Cities in Southeast Asia 2022 category, Bangkok, Thailand, came first, followed by Singapore, Da Nang, Kuala Lumpur, Hanoi, Chiang Mai, Hong Kong, Ho Chi Minh City, Phnom Penh, and Jakarta.
Bangkok remains a top tourist destination for many reasons, including its warm smiles, delicious street food, and the good vibes of a tuk-tuk ride or even motorcycle travel around Bangkok. Interestingly, Bangkok is a diverse city where visitors can find a luxury travel experience, such as staying in a room with a private pool and dining at Michelin-starred restaurants. Likewise, Bangkok also serves as a convenient hub for travel to other parts of Southeast Asia.
In the Best Islands in Southeast Asia 2022 category, Phuket, Thailand, ranked first, followed by Koh Samui, Bali (Indonesia).  Phu Quoc Island (Vietnam), Langkawi Island (Malaysia), Lombok Island (Indonesia), Palawan Island (Philippines), Penang Island (Malaysia), Phi Phi Island, and Con Dao Island (Vietnam).  The Travel + Leisure website points out that Thailand's sandbox policy supports the image that tourists can travel and enter easily, while other tourist areas around the world are still not open for tourists, which is another essential circumstance that makes Phuket Island attract tourists comprehensively.  Furthermore, Phuket Island, which has magnificent beaches, can furnish an assortment of quality experiences for all groups of tourists, such as groups that like to party on the beach at night, family groups, and even health tourism groups, along with accommodation, the atmosphere of Phuket Old Town also contributes to the popularity of Phuket Island too.
"The Prime Minister is pleased that tourists from all over the world continue to pay attention to Thailand and see tourist attractions all over Thailand, including Bangkok, Chiang Mai, Phuket Island, and Koh Samui, as cities that can impress and provide some good experiences." Furthermore, he also thanks all relevant agencies that have successfully participated in implementing the government's policy, which encourages Thailand to obtain a wealth of advantages from implementing procedures at appropriate times, along with thanking everyone for being a good host, which makes Thailand appealing and unique. Since the COVID-19 situation started to unravel, the government's sandbox policy has aimed to energize tourism recovery by allowing Phuket Island to be the main area for tourists and broadening to other sites, and that appears to have performed at the right time by enabling an increase in the number of tourists traveling to Thailand; therefore, Thailand proceeds to pursue its popularity among tourists." Thanakorn said.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/56506