รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM: Budget is in accordance with the law and reiterated that the government takes care of all groups of people.


วันพุธที่ 1 มิถุนายน 2565
พิมพ์
PM: Budget is in accordance with the law and reiterated that the government takes care of all groups of people.
PM: Budget is in accordance with the law and reiterated that the government takes care of all groups of people.
May 31, 2022, at 14.40 hrs, at the 2023 budget bill debate of the House of Representatives, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha has made a clarification regarding insufficient budget for the development of the country. The total of 3,185,000 million baht consists of a capital expenditure of 695,077.4 million baht, or 21.82%, in accordance with the law, and the government also has other forms of public investment such as Public Private Partnership (PPP) and Thailand Future Fund (TFFIF), which is around 98,929 million baht.  Thus, in 2023, the government will have 7,940,006 million baht for the country's investment expenditure, or 24.9% of the Budget Expenditure for the Fiscal Year 2023.  In addition, there is also a suburban train system project; Den Chai-Chiang Khong Railway project; the railway project in Ban Phai, Maha Sarakham, Roi Et, Mukdahan, Nakhon Phanom; the SRT Dark Red Line; the Thai-Chinese Railway project; the MRT Purple Line project; the MRT Purple Line Project (Phase 2: Bang Yai Section); the MRT Pink Line Project; and the MRT Yellow Line Project.
The Prime Minister mentioned the agricultural budget that has taken several additional actions; besides the rice price guarantee, the government has also improved the agricultural sector by reducing production costs, providing collaborative farming support, and enhancing technology. The Prime Minister emphasized that the government is willing to provide ongoing assistance to strengthen the agricultural sector.  The BCG economic policy is the most important for the agricultural and food sectors. Value-added agriculture focuses on high quality farmers by promoting the use of technology and innovation in the production and processing of food and agricultural products, including online trading. This creates smart farmers, promotes all sector participation, uses big data in agriculture, and uses Agri-Map to create a platform to support collaborative farming, procurement of agricultural machinery, and online market expansion. All of these things are for people to live and survive, to be safer and stronger.
The Prime Minister confirmed that the government has prioritized the expenditure limit for the year 2023 with data from every province and every sector. In Big Data, the government takes care of all of them. Some issues which are more urgent, it must be done first. In the case of the emergency budget, it is also used to fill the budget for provinces, groups of provinces, and integration in the event of insufficient funds for important projects. Moreover, the government has given importance to the issue of infectious diseases by supporting a budget of more than 397 billion baht. In terms of rehabilitation and economic stimulation, the government is providing a budget that will be used to improve the accommodation to accommodate more tourists who will travel during this period.
The Prime Minister reveals that the net income comes from taxation collected from people in each occupation group with different incomes, which is the main income of the government to take care of those people with low incomes. At the same time, the government has moved forward with other projects such as a new industrial structure. In terms of household debt, public debt, and various debts, the issues have been clarified many times by the government.
However, many of the issues the opposition has raised are not the facts. The Prime Minister confirmed that the government takes care of all civil servants and the people. Also, the rice price insurance in the past was for the amount of in 2020 60 billion baht, in 2021 80 billion baht, and in the year 2022, 150 billion baht. The Prime Minister did not object if the government had to pay the rice price guarantee. But we need to find an option for farmers to earn money from their agriculture by developing smart farmers, using technology and using machines to reduce production costs.
In addition, the Prime Minister mentioned the potash mine. He has given a policy to drive this matter, which MPs, as the owners of the area, need to get people to cooperate and approve in order to move forward.  In terms of the energy supply, the Prime Minister mentioned that we need to see in details try not to get people confused and might cause difficulty in management.  As the MPs who are representatives of the people, they should not only complain about what the government has done today but should also tell people to access government services.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/55281