รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand and Peru to enhance cooperation on circular economy and inclusive and sustainable growth


วันศุกร์ที่ 8 เมษายน 2565
พิมพ์
Thailand and Peru to enhance cooperation on circular economy and inclusive and sustainable growth
Thailand and Peru to enhance cooperation on circular economy and inclusive and sustainable growth
April 7, 2022, at 1330hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Fernando Julio Antonio Quirós Campos, Ambassador of the Republic of Peru to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his completion of tenure. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister thanked the Peruvian Ambassador for his active role in promoting Thailand-Peru relations throughout the five years of his tenure, and was pleased that the two countries commit to maintain relations dynamism between each other despite the COVID-19 challenge. Thailand and Peru successfully held joint activities to celebrate the 55th anniversary of diplomatic relations in 2020. The Prime Minister also conveyed his regards to the Peruvian President José Pedro Castillo Terrones, and expressed hope that Thailand would have an opportunity to welcome the Peruvian President at the 2022 APEC Summit, to be hosted by the country at the end of this year.
The Peruvian Ambassador expressed appreciation toward the Thai Government for its constant support and cooperation during his tenure in Thailand, and affirmed his commitment to continue to promote cooperation and understanding between the two countries. With Thailand’s potentials in various areas, the Ambassador sees it as a good opportunity to further develop cooperation in all dimensions. Peru stands ready to fully support Thailand's APEC host year, and hopes to exchange experiences and expertise in wide-ranging areas, especially gastronomic tourism, and COVID-19 situation administration.
Both parties also discussed the following issues of mutual interest:
On public health, both the Prime Minister and the ambassador were pleased with close cooperation on the fight against the spread of COVID-19 and economy rehabilitation. The Prime Minister commended Peru for its high 2-dose vaccination rate, and the effort to provide the booster dose to people in the vulnerability groups. Thailand has also placed high importance on maintaining balance between public health measures and people’s normal living.
On trade and investment, Peru is Thailand’s important trade partner in Latin America and the Caribbean. There are plenty of opportunities to expand cooperation in the fields of circular economy, bioenergy, and sustainable agriculture. Both Thailand and Peru have placed importance on circular economy, and are notable for their biodiversity. The two countries are also world’s leading exporters of food and agricultural products.
On the development cooperation, both the Prime Minister and the ambassador were pleased with close technical cooperation and the cooperation for development throughout the past 16 years, and hoped to expand cooperation in new and diversified areas, especially human resources development, and exchange of experts in the development of alternative crops, sustainable community tourism, and science and technology.
With regard to multilateral cooperation, the Prime Minister affirmed Thailand’s commitment, amidst all the current challenges, to propel APEC forward, especially economic recovery, trade and investment, and inclusive and sustainable growth. Thailand stands ready to support Peru’s hosting of APEC in 2024, while Peru is also pleased to endorse Thailand’s BCG economic model which is in line with its policy.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/53448