รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand and Nigeria to advance cooperation in agriculture and sustainable environment


วันศุกร์ที่ 17 มิถุนายน 2565
พิมพ์
Thailand and Nigeria to advance cooperation in agriculture and sustainable environment
Thailand and Nigeria to advance cooperation in agriculture and sustainable environment
June 16, 2022, at 1330hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Ovikuroma Orogun Djebah, Ambassador of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his assumption of the position. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed Nigerian Ambassador to Thailand, and congratulated the 60th anniversary of Thailand- Nigeria diplomatic relations this year. He expressed confidence that the Nigerian Ambassador would play an important role in expanding and strengthening cooperation between the two countries. The Prime Minister also conveyed his regards to H.E. Mr. Muhammadu Buhari, President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the Nigerian people, and expressed hope for an increase of relations dynamism through various bilateral cooperation frameworks, especially in trade and investment, agriculture, and environment. The Thai Government stands ready to support the Nigerian Ambassador during his tenure in Thailand for mutual interest of the two countries.
The Nigerian Ambassador expressed pleasure to be tenured in Thailand, and committed to continue to forge existing cooperation and develop new collaborations. He commended Thailand’s trade and investment, and academic potentials, and affirmed Nigeria’s readiness to promote Thai investment in the country. Nigeria is also keen to exchange knowhow in the fields of Thailand’s expertise, i.e., public health, agriculture, and environment, which not only benefit Thailand and Nigeria, but could also be a model to other countries in the world.
Both parties also discussed other issues of mutual interest:
On trade and investment, both Thailand and Nigeria agreed to push forward cooperation that are beneficial to both countries. The Prime Minister was of the view that there are potentials for the two countries to expand mutual trade, especially in quality food products and consumption products. Existing bilateral mechanism can be leveraged to promote various areas of cooperation, while negotiation on pending agreements should be resumed. The Nigerian Ambassador informed the Prime Minister that the Ambassy of Nigeria in Thailand has planned to organized a seminar on Thailand-Nigeria trade and investment in August 2022 with an aim to increase trade and investment opportunity between the two countries.
With regard to agriculture and environment, the Prime Minister congratulated Nigeria Institute of Soil Science (NISS) for being bestowed the “King Bhumibol World Soil Say Award” on occasion of the 2022 World Soil Day. The two parties came to terms to promote cooperation on management of soil and water resources and agriculture which is crucial to the development of agro-industry of both countries. Thailand stands ready to exchange knowledge and knowhow with Nigeria on the Sufficiency Economy Philosophy.
On academic cooperation, the Nigerian Ambassador thanked Thailand for the development cooperation through providing scholarships and trainings in agriculture, while the Prime Minister expressed belief that the integration of knowledge by all sectors would greatly contribute to national development in a sustainable manner.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/55823