รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-CESA approves 4 economic stimulus measures to promote cloud service investment and tech startups


วันอังคารที่ 7 ธันวาคม 2564
พิมพ์
CESA approves 4 economic stimulus measures to promote cloud service investment and tech startups
CESA approves 4 economic stimulus measures to promote cloud service investment and tech startups
December 3, 2021, at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha presided over the 5/2021 meeting of the Committee for Economic Situation Administration (CESA) where 4 economic and investment stimulus measures have been approved: 1) a measure to attract high-potential foreigners; 2) promotion of cloud service investment; 3) investment promotion of tech startups; and 4) promotion of foreign filmmaking in Thailand. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchanadisclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister stated that the aim for “Transforming Thailand” is to increase national revenues, which needs collaboration between the public and private sectors. The rebound of Thailand’s GDP to a 1.2% growth is a result of the Government’s effort to control the spread of COVID-19 pandemic and implement various economic stimulus measures, such as, the Half-Half scheme, and domestic tourism promotion. As for the new variant “Omicron”, immediate action has been taken to bar entering of travelers from the risk countries, while people at a high risk of infection have all been traced and contacted to undergo RT-PCR retest.
The Prime Minister added that in promoting investmentnowadays, implementation of stimulus measures is more appropriate than provision of investment privileges or tax measures. The Government strives to support the investment in cloud services and data center in order to drive the Digital Thailand. Ministry of Energy and Ministry of Interior have been assigned to prepare for and ensure energy stability since the S-Curve industries require stable power system and circular energy. Proper ecosystem, i.e., revision of related laws and tax system, will also be undertaken to promote tech startups businesses run by new generation entrepreneurs. The Prime Minister emphasized that the Government has placed much importance on the investment in new generations and youths since it is the investment for the country’s future. He reiterated that transforming Thailand has to be done in an immediate and timely manner, and instructed all concerned agencies to set the implementation timeline to 1-3 months to ensure concrete progress.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/49191