รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM attends 28th APEC Leaders’ Summit


วันศุกร์ที่ 12 พฤศจิกายน 2564
พิมพ์
PM attends 28th APEC Leaders’ Summit
PM attends 28th APEC Leaders’ Summit
November 12, 2021, at 1800hrs (Thailand), at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha delivered a statement at the 2nd session of the 28th APEC Leaders’ Summit via a teleconference under theme: “Recovering from COVID-19 to build prosperity for all our people and future generations”. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist as follows:
New Zealand Prime Minister welcomes all leaders to the meeting. Regarding the souvenirs that New Zealand has given to leaders which are the Garment and the Koru Pounamu, the Garment, inspired by the Korowai, a traditional Maori cloak, is a symbol of the gathering together, working together. The Koru Pounamu reflect New Zealand’s spirit, which the pattern signifies a new beginning together. Now, it is the time to go through differences to work together to fight with COVID-19 through new cooperation for the future. Moreover, solving the problem of climate change, digital technology, vaccination acceleration and finding the way to work together, especially communication with Youth. However, New Zealand assures the importance of APEC, and APEC's Future.
Ms. Kristalina Georgieva, Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) revealed the factors that could be the obstacle to economic recovery which are inequality, inflation, and the impact of climate change. Economic leaders should implement the policy that recovers the economy, along with taking action in solving the problem of climate change. IMF suggested that the leaders should set the goal of COVID-19 vaccination rate to be 40-70% in mid-2022.  Carbon emissions measures should be addressed at the national level and involved with private sectors. Moreover, poverty problem should be resolved in order to enhance the inclusive equality.
According to the Prime Minister, the world has taken a turn for the better. Although the threat of the virus still lingers, there is every possibility that we could live with it and push through this crisis. We need to ride on this positive momentum to accelerate recovery and revitalize our economy for long-term growth. To that end, the Prime Minister was of the view that APEC should prioritize the following three issues.
First and most immediate is rebooting regional connectivity, particularly in the travel and tourism industry. Thailand sees the merits of a common travel arrangement in facilitating and stimulating international travel and tourism among APEC economies, and is fully committed to this priority. The country has been working hard to advance this issue, and will continue to work with all economies throughout Thailand’s host year, with a view to delivering a tangible outcome on safe passage for our region.
Second is rejuvenating trade and investment. APEC must continue to take the lead in advancing free and open trade and investment, as well as strengthening the rules-based multilateral trading system. APEC’s support and strong signal to the upcoming 12th WTO Ministerial Conference will provide a crucial impetus for the delivery of tangible results.
Third is revitalizing economies to ensure long-term growth that is sustainable, balanced and inclusive. Last week, COP26 Summit saw world leaders reaffirm their collective conviction to advance sustainability and climate action. Thailand also affirmed its ambitious targets on carbon neutrality and net zero greenhouse gas emissions, as well as our pledge to innovate and optimize renewable resources, turn waste into wealth, and accelerate the green transition. Hence, the bio-circular-green or BCG economy concept. It provides a pathway to bring about a paradigm shift towards a more balanced and sustainable post-COVID future, for the benefit of all the people and future generations.
The Prime Minister affirmed Thailand’s determination to bring the country’s experience to bear on advancing APEC’s work on sustainable and inclusive growth going forward. He also congratulated New Zealand for the success in delivering the Implementation Plan to translate the Putrajaya Vision 2040 into concrete actions. Thailand would continue the work of APEC and closely collaborate with other economies, especially in the context of the post-COVID-19 world, for the prosperity of our region and the people. Last, the PM supported the U.S. and Peru to host the next APEC meeting in 2023 and 2024 respectively.
Two outcome documents have been adopted at the 28th APEC Leaders’ Summit: 1) APEC Leaders’ Declaration, and 2) APEC Putrajaya Vision 2040 Implementation Plan. The 28th APEC Leaders’ Summit was held under theme: “Join, Work, Grow. Together”. APEC, which comprises 21 member economies, started in 1989 to promote economic integration and free trade and investment throughout the Asia-Pacific region. Thailand will take over APEC chairmanship from New Zealand in 2022 under the theme: “Open. Connect. Balance”.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/48168