รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM pleased that Thailand has continuously gained confidence in hosting regional sporting events.


วันอังคารที่ 21 มิถุนายน 2565
พิมพ์
​PM pleased that Thailand has continuously gained confidence in hosting regional sporting events.
PM pleased that Thailand has continuously gained confidence in hosting regional sporting events.
PM pleased that Thailand has continuously gained confidence in hosting regional sporting events.
On June 21, 2022, Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana, the Government Spokesperson, revealed that the Prime Minister and Minister of Defense, Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha, were gratified that member countries in the region have entrusted Thailand to host international sporting events continuously. In this regard, the prime minister also sent encouragement and support to athletes and stakeholders to achieve the intended goals. The Prime Minister also reminds all parties to be good hosts, operate efficiently according to disease control measurements, and generate a friendly competitive atmosphere.
The Government Spokesperson disclosed that due to Thai effectiveness in controlling the COVID-19 situation, along with the readiness and capability in the sports industry at the regional level, Thailand has therefore hosted the 29th Asian Junior Individual Championships from June 15–19, 2022 at the Ambassador City Jomtien Hotel, Chonburi Province. Over 400 athletes from 14 countries participated in the competition. There are 19 squash athletes participating in the competition.  The president of the Squash Association of Thailand wishes that this tournament will draw attention to squash in Thailand, and this is also an opportunity to promote Thai squash internationally.
Moreover, Thailand will have a chance to host the 26th South East Asian Junior and Cadet Table Tennis Championships: SEAJCTTC, held between 17–22 June 2022, and the 12th South East Asian Table Tennis Championships: SEATTC, held from 23–28 June 2022, at Island Hall, 3rd floor, Fashion Island Shopping Center. Thailand is considered the first country in the world to hold two consecutive competitions due to the potential of Thai table tennis and the readiness to control the COVID-19 situation.
Mr. Thanakorn added that the Prime Minister believes in the potential of Thai sports from the continuous achievements in winning and receiving various awards at the international level, and he is also delighted that Thailand has gained global confidence in its role as a host of sporting events. He would like to thank all relevant agencies for participating in the integration of operations to drive Thailand's economic advancement. He also believed that this would help boost tourism in the country. The Prime Minister encouraged all relevant agencies to accelerate the gathering of experience and preparation before broadening the agenda of hosting the SEA Games 2025.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/55948