รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM delivers keynote address at launching of “OECD Integrity Review of Thailand 2021”


วันจันทร์ที่ 7 มีนาคม 2565
พิมพ์
​PM delivers keynote address at launching of “OECD Integrity Review of Thailand 2021”
​PM delivers keynote address at launching of “OECD Integrity Review of Thailand 2021”
March 4, 2022, at 15.00 hrs, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha delivered a keynote address via a videoconference at the launching ceremony of the “OECD Integrity Review of Thailand 2021” which is a full review of the key pillars of the country’s public integrity system conducted by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), in collaboration with the Office of Public Sector Development Commission (OPDC), and other concerned public agencies and networks. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure of the report launching and publication. Thailand has become the first country in Asia-Pacific completing a full review of the key pillars of the country’s public integrity system, which demonstrates the Government’s continued commitment to investing in public integrity and sharing practices and expertise with OECD countries. This would also lead to an increase of public sector’s accountability on par with the international standard. The Thai Government has been well aware of the impact of corruption against the people and foreign investors, and has sought support from such an international organization as OECD to tackle the issue, especially through the 1st phase of Thailand-OECD Country Programme.
Thailand strives to build transparent and accountable public institutions, foster integrity culture among public officials, and promote the “open government” under which people’s participation on anti-corruption is encouraged. Corruption awareness and shame will also be instilled among government officials and the public to promote trust and ensure that the country can be propelled down a path of sustained economic growth.
The Prime Minister expressed confidence that the Thai Government and OECD would continue to foster cooperation under the 2nd phase of the Thailand-OECD Country Programme, which is now under the negotiation, to elevate people’s wellbeing in accordance with OECD’s principle: “Better Policies for Better Lives”. The Prime Minister also took the opportunity to thank all concerned agencies for their support and engagement toward the success.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/52253