รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-JFCCT commends PM’s policies and commits to provide support on upskill-reskill of Thai workers


วันศุกร์ที่ 18 กุมภาพันธ์ 2565
พิมพ์
JFCCT commends PM’s policies and commits to provide support on upskill-reskill of Thai workers
JFCCT commends PM’s policies and commits to provide support on upskill-reskill of Thai workers
February 17, 2022, at 1400hrs, at the Outer Santi Maitri Building, Government House, president of the Joint Foreign Chambers of Commerce in Thailand (JFCCT) and the delegation paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure to meet with the JFCCT delegation once again. With the COVID-19 situation that has greatly affected activities of all sectors, the Thai Government strives to maintain balance between public health safety and business activities. He was of the view that the private sector is a crucial part in driving forward Thailand in the post-COVID-19 era, especially during the country’s APEC chairmanship in 2022, with the BCG economic model as fundamental concept.
The JFCCT president expressed appreciation toward the Thai Government for its constant support, and trade and investment promotion. JFCCT has closely collaborated with several Thai organizations and agencies, especially the Thai Chamber of Commerce and Board of Trade of Thailand, and is confident in the Prime Minister’s policies, i.e., the country reopening, Test & Go system, Thailand 4.0, and the Government’s digital development plan, which have effectively contributed to trade and investment promotion, and particularly facilitated the business sector. He also expressed support on the BCG economic model, and affirmed that JFCCT’s investment in Thailand would be in line with the sustainable and green development concept. JFCCT also stands ready to support the upskill-reskill of Thai workers, through trainings and adoption of technologies and innovations.
Both parties also discussed key issues of mutual interest:
Thailand 4.0, digital transformation, and economic modernization: The Prime Minister and JFCCT president came to terms on the importance of digital transformation. Thailand 4.0 policy has been implemented with an aim to transform Thailand into value-based economy with the adoption of technology and innovation. The JFCCT president commended Thailand for placing importance on business sector of all levels, especially the SMEs, and for promoting trade and investment that are inducive to Thailand’s transformation into the digital economy. With vast network of experts, JFCCT is ready to support the Government’s endeavor through co-investment, and exchange of knowledge, technology, and experts, as well as experiences, with the Thai public and private sectors.
BCG Model and Thailand’s APEC chairmanship: Both parties agreed that sustainable development agenda, on which the Thai Government has placed importance, must be pushed forward. The BCG economic model is well relevant with at least 5 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and will complement ESG businesses which the Thai Government places importance on.
Toward the end of the meeting, the Prime Minister thanked JFCCT for its important role in providing advices and assistance to foreign investors in Thailand, and for constant cooperation with the Thai Government. JFCCT president was of the view that Thailand still has so much potential, and JFCCT stands ready to cooperate for mutual interests.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/51687