รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Thailand- Netherlands to tighten cooperation in water management, agro technology, and biotechnology


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 3 กุมภาพันธ์ 2565
​Thailand- Netherlands to tighten cooperation in water management, agro technology, and biotechnology
​Thailand- Netherlands to tighten cooperation in water management, agro technology, and biotechnology
February 2, 2022, at 1330hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Remco Johannes van Wijngaarden, Ambassador of the Kingdom of the Netherlands to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his assumption of the position. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed the Dutch Ambassador to Thailand, and congratulated official swear-in of the new Dutch Government. He also conveyed his humble wish to His Majesty King Willem-Alexander. Thailand and the Netherlands have forged close relations for over 400 years through exchange of visits at all levels, bilateral and multilateral cooperation, especially in trade and investment.
The Dutch Ambassador expressed honor to be tenured in Thailand with which the Netherlands has placed importance on strengthening relations and promoting trade and investment ties, and stands ready to cooperate and exchange information in various areas of mutual interests.
Both parties discussed a number issues of cooperation:
On economic cooperation, the Prime Minister recognized the Netherlands as Thailand's important trade partner, with the continuously increasing trade value between each other. The Netherlands is also the biggest EU source of foreign diect investment in the country. The Dutch Ambassador agreed to further promote mutual trade and investment. At present, over 300 Dutch firms have invested in Thailand, while the Netherlands has also been collaborating with the BOI to promote investment expansion. The country also endorses revival of FTA negotiation between Thailand and EU, and elevation of ASEAN-EU relations. Thailand and the Netherlands could play vital roles in promoting relations and cooperation between the two regions for mutual interest.
With regard to water management and environment, the Netherlands stands ready to cooprate with Thailand on sustainable development and green economy. The Prime Minister mentioned the BCG economic model which is in line with the Netherlands' expertise. An MOU on water management cooperation has been signed between Thailand's Office of the National Water Resources and Dutch Ministry of Infrastructure and Water Management in 2021.
On agro technology, food, and biotechnology, the Prime Minister proposed expansion of cooperation between the Netherlands' Food Valley and Thailand's Food Innopolis, as the former has a plan for an establishment of the Global Coordinating Secretariat of the Food Innovation Hubs (GCS). The Dutch Ambassador informed that the Netherlands would be pleased to exchange knowledge on agro technology. The Prime Minister also congratulated the Netherlands' hosting of the "EXPO 2022 Floriade Almere" during April and October 2022, where Thailand will also set up Thailand Pavilion under the theme "Trust Thailand". He expressed confidence that the EXPO would greatly contribute to the networking and exchange of green technology and innovation for environmental-friendly life of the future.
The Dutch Ambassador also congratulated Thailand’s 2022 APEC chairmanship. The Prime Minister affirmed Thailand’s readiness to host full-fledged APEC meetings under the theme “Open. Connect. Balance.”

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/51187