รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​The Government Spokesperson revealed that the PM requested all relevant agencies to accelerate the development of women's roles in all dimensions.


วันศุกร์ที่ 22 กรกฎาคม 2565
พิมพ์
​The Government Spokesperson revealed that the PM requested all relevant agencies to accelerate the development of women's roles in all dimensions.
​The Government Spokesperson revealed that the PM requested all relevant agencies to accelerate the development of women's roles in all dimensions.
July 21, 2022, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana revealed that Prime Minister and Minister of Defense, Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha promoted and facilitated the advancement of women and gender equality in ASEAN by urging all parties to continuously develop Thai women's economic and social competitiveness to raise awareness of Thai women's proficiency and roles in different social proportions.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the PM directed all agencies to accumulate a list of female executives in the public, private, and political sectors, whether they are still on duty or have recently retired, to inform in the international forum. This will help demonstrate the potential and opportunities of Thai women's roles in every context, strengthening the position, and advancing ability of women, following the cabinet acknowledged the results of the 4th ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on Women (4th AMMW) and the Joint Statement of the Fourth ASEAN Ministerial Meeting on Women (draft), focusing on issues such as; raising awareness of the gender impact of the COVID-19 pandemic to women and girls, enabling women in the digital economy for marketing, finance, and personal improvement opportunities, and inspiring all women to actively participate in the policy-making process based on the ASEAN Community Vision 2025.
"The Prime Minister believed in Thai women's potential and has always emphasized the role of women in all dimensions. With this conviction, the Prime Minister requested all agencies to encourage and support women in economic and social roles, allowing women to demonstrate their full potential.  In order to promote genders equality, the PM proceeds to furnish opportunities for Thai women in all contexts, both; domestically and on the global stage," Thanakorn said.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/57135