รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM: Response plan put in place against spread of Omicron variant


วันพุธที่ 8 ธันวาคม 2564
พิมพ์
PM: Response plan put in place against spread of Omicron variant
PM: Response plan put in place against spread of Omicron variant
December 7, 2021, at 1320hrs, at Santi Maitri Building, Government House, following the weekly cabinet meeting, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha gave an interview to the press on the first Omicron case in Thailand that Ministry of Public Health has prepared a response plan in the case that more cases are detected. Travelers entering Thailand under the Test & Go must undergo the RT-PCR test to ensure safety. The Prime Minister also emphasized the importance of vaccination, as the constant decrease of newly-infected patients in the country has shown the effectiveness of vaccination for herd immunity. It is also important that all businesses and services strictly comply with the ‘Covid Free Setting’ requirements.
With regard to the call of Chana Rak Thin Network, concerned agencies were assigned to conduct another public hearing to listen to all the stakeholders. On the BTS Green Line, Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Interior, and the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration (BMA) are working together to look for ways to solve the debt problem, incurred since its construction, in accordance with the legal procedure.
The Prime Minister affirmed the Government’s commitment to address disparity and inequity, and increase competitiveness for everyone to gain equal access to opportunities. Under the “Transforming Thailand”, investment promotion will be focused to increase GDP. The Government strives to optimize budget expenditure in an effective, transparent, and accountable mannerto extend supply chain of all activities, especially in agriculture and fishery. The Government will also provide the people with New Year gifts through implementation of measures that would boost their happiness and wellbeing.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/49238