รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM: Govt strives to address people’s bread-and-butter concerns while driving forward economic recovery


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 18 สิงหาคม 2565
พิมพ์
PM: Govt strives to address people’s bread-and-butter concerns while driving forward economic recovery
PM: Govt strives to address people’s bread-and-butter concerns while driving forward economic recovery
August 16, 2022, at 1320hrs, at the Government House, following the weekly cabinet meeting, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha gave a press briefing on the resolutions made by the cabinet as follows:
The cabinet approved the Royal Decree on annual tax reduction for taxis, motor-tricycle taxis (Tuk Tuk), and public motorcycles with an aim to help alleviate the burden of approx. 270,000 registered public vehicle operators who have been impacted by the COVID-19 situation and gasoline price hike. Under the Royal Decree, annual tax for public vehicles in 2023 (October 1, 2022- September 30, 2023) will be reduced by 90% of the normal rates. According to the Prime Minister, the Government has earlier implemented a measure to assist 16,694 people under this group of occupations who are informal labors and not covered by the Thai social security program through subsidy provision of 5,000 Baht each.
The cabinet also approved extension of the Export-Import Bank of Thailand’s EXIM Biz Transformation Loan for another year from ending on July 31, 2022 to ending on June 30, 2023. This is to help liquidate SMEs businesses. It also approved an allocation of 510 million Baht from the Farmers Fund to bolster Thai sea shrimp industry, of which the import volume has seen decreased to only 300,000 tons/year. The allocated budget will be used to acquire production factors, promote business liquidation, and conduct marketing and training, among others. The other approval made is the 5,000-Baht subsidy provided to 2,459 artists over 65 years of age who are not covered by the Thai social security program and have been impacted by the COVID-19 situation, for the total amount of 12 million Baht.
On the flood situation, the Prime Minister has instructed concerned agencies to execute according to the 13 response measures set for the 2022 rainy season, and closely monitor and prepare for possible inundation, especially in the areas near the mountains and along watercourses.
The Prime Minister also mentioned the raise of electrical fee that concerned agencies are working out on the best possible measure which will be in accordance with the law and will not impose great impact and burden over the people and business operators. The Prime Minister also instructed Ministry of Commerce to carefully deliberate requests for an increase of commodity prices. Product prices, if raised, should later be reduced in line with the cost mechanism. It is important that the public and business operators are the least affected. He affirmed that the Government strives to help out all groups of people where possible, taking into account available budget.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/58141