รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with Minebea Mitsumi Inc. Chief Executive Officer


วันพุธที่ 27 กรกฎาคม 2565
PM meets with Minebea Mitsumi Inc. Chief Executive Officer
PM meets with Minebea Mitsumi Inc. Chief Executive Officer
July 25, 2022, at 1100hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Mr. KAINUMA Yoshihisa, Minebea Mitsumi Inc. Chief Executive Officer, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his visit to Thailand.
Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchan disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister underscored close relations between Thailand and Japan that have spanned for over 135 years with an elevation to comprehensive strategic partnership, and thanked the company for its confidence and long-time investment in Thailand, which have created a significant number of employments in the country. The Thai Government welcomes additional investment of Minebea Mitsumi Inc., and commits to provide full support.
The Prime Minister was also pleased with the company’s cooperation in the Government’s effort to support business sector during the COVID-19 situation through the implementation of “Factory Sandbox” scheme. Minebea Mitsumi Inc. also made donation of medical equipment to various agencies in the country. The Prime Minister congratulated the 40th anniversary of Minebea Mitsumi Inc.’s investment in Thailand, which would also be the good opportunity for the company to launch the new fully-automated plant at the end of this year.
Minebea Mitsumi Inc. Chief Executive Officer thanked the Thai Government for its support during the COVID-19 situation, and commended the “Factory Sandbox” scheme. He also affirmed that Thailand is the company’s highest priority country as it is the company’s largest manufacturing base. Minebea Mitsumi Inc. stands ready to cooperate with the Thai Government in solidifying Thailand’s export foundation.
Both parties also discussed the issue of clean energy. The Prime Minister commended the company for placing great importance on the use of clean energy, which is in line with the country’s strategy to reduce global warming. Minebea Mitsumi Inc. has also come up with new products that promote clean energy, such as smart street light poles on which the company has already cooperated with concerned government agency.
Nevertheless, Mr. Kainuma was of the view that both sides further increase clean energy cooperation in order to achieve carbon neutrality set by both Thailand and Japan. The Prime Minister agreed and assigned concerned agencies to proceed, taking into account utmost benefit of the Thai people.
Amidst so many global challenges, the Prime Minister would like the Japanese business sector to pay special attention to the production chain in Thailand to avoid such problems as shortage of parts. He called on Minebea Mitsumi Inc. to consider additional investment in semiconductors for the manufacturing of EVs and smart cities, and human resource development. Thailand and Japan have agreed upon an establishment of KOSEN institute, and the Prime Minister hoped that Minebea Mitsumi Inc. would contribute in knowledge and technology transfer to Thai workers.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/57311