รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand and Australia affirm close strategic partnership and commitment to promote post-COVID-19 socio-economic recovery


วันพุธที่ 25 พฤษภาคม 2565
พิมพ์
Thailand and Australia affirm close strategic partnership and commitment to promote post-COVID-19 socio-economic recovery
Thailand and Australia affirm close strategic partnership and commitment to promote post-COVID-19 socio-economic recovery
May 24, 2022, at 1500hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Allan James McKinnon, Ambassador of the Commonwealth of Australia to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his completion of tenure. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure to meet with the Australian ambassador once again, and thanked him for his active role in promoting relations and cooperation between Thailand and Australia throughout the three years of his tenure. His notable accomplishments include organization of activities to commemorate the 70th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the two countries, and production of a video documentary on His Majesty the King’s study time in the Commonwealth of Australia, which reflects a special bond between the two countries. The Prime Minister also congratulated success of Australia’s general election held on May 21st 2022, and affirmed the Thai government’s readiness to work with the new Government of Australia to advance relations and cooperation.
The Australian Ambassador expressed appreciation toward the Prime Minister, the Thai government, and all concerned agencies for providing continuous support throughout his tenure. He also commended cordial relations between the two countries. Australia has now been reopened. Foreign travelers do not need to undergo self-quarantine to enter the country. In terms of trade and investment cooperation, a trade agreement between Thailand and Australia has been developed, as well as exchange of investments. The Australian Ambassador committed to continue to promote Thai and Australian cooperation even after his tenure in Thailand.
Both parties also congratulated close strategic partnership between the two countries. Military and security cooperation has long been forged, both at the bilateral and regional levels, while Thailand strives to promote close cooperation with Australia in anti-human trafficking. The Prime Minister thanked Australia for an establishment of “Counter Trafficking in Persons Center of Excellence” which will further enhance cooperation of the two countries in this area as strategic partners.
On post-COVID-19 socio-economic recovery, the Prime Minister thanked the Australian Government for donating COVID-19 vaccines to Thailand, and was pleased with Australia’s lifting of quarantine requirement for foreign travelers, which would contribute considerably to the recovery of people-to-people relations, and mutual trade and investment. Thailand stands ready to expand investment cooperation in the areas of Australia’s expertise, that are also in line with the country’s BCG economic model. The Prime Minister extended his invitation to Australian private sector to increase their investment in the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC).
With regard to regional and sub-regional cooperation, the Prime Minister congratulated the elevation of ASEAN-Australia comprehensive strategic partnership, and commended the latter’s constructive role in the development of Mekong sub-region. He expressed hope that the two countries continue to advance cooperation under the regional and sub-regional frameworkstoward tangible achievements.
Toward the end of the meeting, the Prime Minister thanked Australia for its support on Thailand’s hosting of APEC 2022. The country commits to drive APEC forward amidst various challenges to promote post-COVID-19 economic recovery, and sustainable and inclusive growth.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/54963