รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand and China congratulate 10th anniversary of “Comprehensive Strategic Cooperative Partnership”


วันพุธที่ 6 กรกฎาคม 2565
Thailand and China congratulate 10th anniversary of “Comprehensive Strategic Cooperative Partnership”
Thailand and China congratulate 10th anniversary of “Comprehensive Strategic Cooperative Partnership”
July 5, 2022, at 1500hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Wang Yi, State Councilor and Foreign Minister of the People’s Republic of China, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his visit to Thailand. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed China’s State Councilor and Foreign Minister to Thailand, and conveyed his regards and well wishes to President Xi Jinping and Prime Minister Li Keqiang. He also expressed concern over the current flood situation in Southern part of China, and was confident that the Chinese Government would be able to handle the situation just like in the past.
The Prime Minister congratulated close and dynamic relations between Thailand and China at all levels. This year also marks the 10th anniversary of the “Comprehensive Strategic Cooperative Partnership” between the two countries, and the Thai Government stands ready to cooperate with the Chinese counterpart to further develop this partnership into the next decade. The Prime Minister also acknowledged the principle, agreed upon by both sides during the meeting between the China’s State Councilor and Foreign Minister and Thailand’s Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, on identification of relations development goals to pave way for the 50th years anniversary of diplomatic relations between Thailand and China in 2025.
State Councilor and Foreign Minister of China expressed honor to have visited to Thailand, China’s important friend in the region, and commended the Prime Minister’s state administration that has engendered social stability, economic development, and effective COVID-19 situation administration. He expressed confidence that the Thai Prime Minister would continue to move Thailand forward for the better. With good understanding between the Prime Minister and President Xi Jinping, Thailand-China relations also continue to evolve positively. As this year marks the 10th anniversary of the “Comprehensive Strategic Cooperative Partnership”, both countries should plan for future cooperation, and work together to build a stable, prosperous, and sustainable community.
Both parties also discussed post-COVID-19 socio-economic revitalization:
The Prime Minister was pleased with mutual trade value, which has increased by over 20% during January and April 2022. He also thanked China for responding to Thailand’s request on export facilitation of agro products, which is No. 1 Thai products exported to China, and proposed to the Chinese counterpart to expedite construction of facilities at China’s various border crossing points for the import of Thai fruits.
On investment cooperation, the Prime Minister extended an invitation to Chinese business operators to increase their investment in Thailand. With the country’s strategic location as the region’s logistics connectivity hub, Thailand is capable to accommodate Chinese investment in the fields of their expertise, e.g., EVs, and agro-industry, especially in the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC).
The State Councilor and Foreign Minister emphasized that China has placed importance on promotion of connectivity through the linking of China-Laos railway with Thai railway system, which could enhance relations dynamism, and facilitate transport of goods and passengers. The Prime Minister also affirmed the Thai Government’s commitment to ensure timely completion of China-Thailand railway projects. Both parties agreed to closely follow up on related obstacles for mutual interest. China also proposed to hold a trilateral meeting to speed up the project progress.
The Prime Minister also thanked China for allowing Thai commercial airlines to resume operation and Thai students to resume study in China. The State Councilor and Foreign Minister endorsed promotion of people’s traveling between two countries.
China expressed support on Thailand’s hosting of APEC 2022, and affirmed President Xi Jinping’s APEC participation if there is not any unforeseeable incident coming up. At the end of the meeting, the Prime Minister stated that “Qixin xieli shishi shunli”, which means everything will become smooth and successful if we are united.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/56602