รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Fitch Ratings maintains Thailand's Long-Term Foreign-Currency Issuer Default Rating (IDR) at 'BBB+' with Stable Outlook


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 23 ธันวาคม 2564
​Fitch Ratings maintains Thailand's Long-Term Foreign-Currency Issuer Default Rating (IDR) at 'BBB+' with Stable Outlook
​Fitch Ratings maintains Thailand's Long-Term Foreign-Currency Issuer Default Rating (IDR) at 'BBB+' with Stable Outlook
Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha acknowledged the Fitch Ratings (Fitch) report, released on December 20, 2021, and was pleased that Fitch has affirmed Thailand's Long-Term Foreign-Currency Issuer Default Rating (IDR) at 'BBB+' with a Stable Outlook.
According to the Prime Minister, the ratings reflect the confidence on the government's prudent fiscal and monetary policy. He thanked Fitch for recognizing Thailand's demonstrated sound debt management strategy, and all concerned agencies for working hard to achieve such tangible outcome and recognition.
According to the Fitch report, Thailand’s real GDP growth will accelerate to 4.5% in 2022 thanks to accommodative fiscal and monetary policies, a continued trend of rising goods exports, and a mild recovery of inbound tourism. The recent increase in the public debt ceiling from 60% to 70% allows for additional capital expenditures and recurrent spending with targeted social transfers to support the recovery.
Thailand's external finances have remained robust and resilient. The current account is also expected to shift to a small surplus of 0.8% of GDP in 2022, and 3.5% of GDP in 2023, from an estimated deficit of 2.0% in 2021.
The Government Spokesperson added that the Fitch report demonstrated the Government’s effort to carry out monetary and fiscal policies in a prudent manner. Fiscal measures have been implemented with an aim to assist the people and entrepreneurs, and promote socio-economic recovery, badly affected by the spread of COVID-19.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/49812