รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand-Chile to increase mutual trade value through FTA


วันอังคารที่ 15 มิถุนายน 2564
พิมพ์
Thailand-Chile to increase mutual trade value through FTA
Thailand-Chile to increase mutual trade value through FTA
June 14, 2021, at 1500hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Christian Rehren Bargetto, Ambassador of the Republic of Chile to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his completion of tenure in Thailand. Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister thanked the Ambassador for his active role in deepening relations between Thailand and Chile. As the year 2022 will mark the 60th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the two countries, Thailand hopes to further strengthen relations and cooperation with Chile. He also conveyed his regards to President Sebastián Piñera, and congratulated Chile’s successful chairmanship of the Pacific Alliance (PA), which has contributed to the region’s effective economic rehabilitation through the development of digital economy and free trade promotion.
The Ambassador expressed pleasure to have been tenured in Thailand. Throughout the 3-year tenure, he has been well cooperated by the Thai Government and other sectors in the country for the best interest of both Thailand and Chile. He also commended Thailand’s approach and response to the COVID-19 situation, especially the Phuket Sandbox scheme, which could be a model for the reopening of the country to foreign tourists in an efficient manner. The Chilean Ambassador affirmed his intention to continue promoting Thailand-Chile cooperation, especially post COVID-19 economic cooperation even after his tenure completion.
Both parties came to terms to promote cooperation through existing bilateral mechanism, i.e., FTA, which would be an opportunity to increase mutual trade value and product diversification. The Prime Minister mentioned the Thai Government’s policy on sustainable economic rehabilitation through investment promotion in the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC), and in environmental-friendly areas and alternative energy under the BCG principle. He also endorsed the cooperation between Thailand’s National Innovation Agency and Chilean Production Development Agency (CORFO) on startup promotion. The Chilean Ambassador would also like to promote the cooperation on fishery and quinoa cultivation to help increase Thai farmers’ revenue.
With regard to the cooperation under ASEAN framework, Thailand endorses Chile’s policy to deepen relations with ASEAN through the Pacific Alliance (PA) and Forum for East Asia (FEALAC) in a bid to link the Asian region with Latin American counterpart.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/42741