รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM attends ABAC – Leaders’ Dialogue during APEC Economic Leaders’ Week


วันเสาร์ที่ 13 พฤศจิกายน 2564
พิมพ์
​PM attends ABAC – Leaders’ Dialogue during APEC Economic Leaders’ Week
​PM attends ABAC – Leaders’ Dialogue during APEC Economic Leaders’ Week
November 11, 2021, at 1900hrs (Thailand), at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha attended the ABAC –Leaders’ Dialogue via a teleconference. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
At the ABAC –Leaders’ Dialogue, the Leaders were divided into 5 groups. The Prime Minister of Thailand was put under Group 1, together with the APEC leaders from Australia, Malaysia, and Chinese Taipei. ABAC Chile asked the Prime Minister the following question: “COVID-19 has had an acute, negative impact on the most vulnerable in our communities, including women, small businesses and Indigenous people. ABAC believes that to safeguard the future, we must regain the ground that has been lost and unlock the full potential of these disadvantaged groups. At the same time, we face increasingly dangerous climate change and the need to embrace the transition to a low-carbon economy. What tools should we be using to address these inclusion and sustainability challenges?”
According to the Prime Minister, Thailand recognizes that at present the world has been facing challenges in wide-ranging aspects. Finding the right tools to address these challenges will be extremely important for APEC going forward. Thailand, as 1 of the 12 founding members of APEC, believes that the pandemic would be an opportunity to ponder the vulnerability of the so-called economic growth.
In 2020, the 21 APEC economies had a combined gross domestic product (GDP) of US$53 Trillion, while the global GDP in the same year was $84.5 trillion. Therefore, restructuring the concept of APEC’s economic growth and the way forward may be a trigger point for the world to solve the problem as stated in the question. Thailand believes that the GDP numbers are not the final answer. A new paradigm shift would help achieve strong, sustainable, resilient and inclusive growth that is based on harmony and thriving for balance. Collaborative partnership and balance are the heart of the Bio-, Circular-, and Green- or BCG Economy Model.
The private sector is the important mechanism for economic growth and rejuvenation. Public-Private-Partnership (PPP) is key to achieving a sustainable, inclusive and responsive future. We can build on our rich biodiversity through innovations and technology. Businesses can also work towards environmental sustainability, conduct business responsibly, and good governance practices.
Collaboration between producers and consumers is crucial for APEC’s proper transition to low carbon economy, which can be done through maximizing energy use, and reduction of waste and emissions, among others. As an incubator of ideas and a forum that prioritizes collaboration with the business community, APEC can help further advance collective efforts to address inclusion and sustainable challenges with business needs in mind. such as investing in renewable energy, implementation of sustainable development goals, waste management, innovation development, as well as human rights.
Mr. Hiroshi Nakaso, ABAC Japan, then, asked the Prime Minister about what role APEC should play in facilitating the transition to a low-carbon economy and how the business sector can support this role. The Prime Minister stated that there have been ongoing efforts within the APEC workstream so far to advance transition to a low-carbon economy, but there is certainly more work to be done in this area. The collective voice from the COP26 Summit last week has revalidated the fact that we need to reaffirm our commitment to sustainable growth and lower our carbon emissions. For Thailand, the Thai Government is committed to addressing climate challenges and lowering carbon emission with an aim to reach carbon neutrality by 2050, and Net Zero Greenhouse Gas Emissions by or before 2065.
Thailand believes that APEC can also have a unified voice and a collective goal to affirm commitment in this regard. During the country’s host year, Thailand will endeavor to propose a list of APEC common environmental goals based on BCG Economy Model.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/48122