รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM chairs 2/2021 permanent-secretary level meeting


วันจันทร์ที่ 20 กันยายน 2564
พิมพ์
PM chairs 2/2021 permanent-secretary level meeting
PM chairs 2/2021 permanent-secretary level meeting
September 20, 2021, at 09.30 hrs, at Bhakdi Bodin Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha presided over the 2/2021 meeting of permanent secretaries and chiefs of ministry-level agencies and equivalent officials via a videoconference. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
According to the Prime Minister, the meeting of permanent secretaries and chiefs of ministry-level agencies and equivalent officials would be a good opportunity to discuss and exchange views on problems and problem solutions, as well as integrative operation of all sectors, both central and local agencies. Despite the fact that the COVID-19 situation starts to ease down, the Government continues to implement assistance and relief measures, and allocate additional budget to tackle both economic and social impacts as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
The Prime Minister instructed permanent secretaries and chiefs of ministry-level agencies and equivalent officials to adhere to the following 3 principles in working: 1) Hardware: various structure, ideas, policies, functional-base and agenda-base; 2) Software: additional tasks and assignments, problem solving (e.g., law amendment), new innovations and initiatives; and 3) human resource development for the post-COVID-19 New Normal to promote resilience in living with COVID, and to lead the country out of the crisis.
The Prime Minister also emphasized the need for government officials to fine-tune their perspectives and working principles in line with the New Normal. They should be the “leader for change” through adopting innovations in their work to promote “open and connected” public sector in accordance with the 20-Year National Strategic Plan.
With regard to overall water management plan, the Government strives to solve problems and undertake water management in a systematic and continuous manner, be it, water drainage and containment system, management of major river basins, consumption water management, prevention of flood and drought, etc. Under the Government’s policy, Office of National Water Resources (ONWR) ’s adoption of satellite technology and imagery in water resources management has reduced losses and enhance data analytics.
The Prime Minister also assigned Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Defense, ONWR, and other concerned agencies to work in an integrative manner in preparing against possible floods, especially acquisition of necessary equipment to prevent flood and inundation over major areas and buildings, i.e., hospitals, public and business buildings, and housing areas.
Toward the end of the meeting, the Prime Minister took a group photo with 10 permanent secretaries and chiefs of ministry-level agencies and equivalent officials who are going to retire at the end of this month.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/46016