รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Cabinet approves measures to attract high-potential foreign residents


วันอังคารที่ 14 กันยายน 2564
พิมพ์
Cabinet approves measures to attract high-potential foreign residents
Cabinet approves measures to attract high-potential foreign residents
September 13, 2021, at the Government House, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that the cabinet, in its meeting today, approved in principle investment and economic stimulus measures to attract long-term stay of high-potential foreigners. Target groups are: 1) affluent global citizens; 2) foreign retirees; 3) remote workers who want to be based in Thailand; and 4) talents.
The measures approved by the cabinet include:
Long-term resident visa: A new type of visa exclusively granted to high-potential foreigner groups. A number of privileges will be given, including, among others, exemption for holders of Long-term resident visa andSmart visas not having to submit a written notice to the authority if their stay exceeds 90 days.
Amendment of related laws or regulations: Such as law related to land ownership, permission for aliens to work for both domestic-based and foreign-based employers, exemption on the regulation prescribing a ratio of four Thai employees for every foreign national employee, tax and customs exemption, etc.
The cabinet assigned Office of National Economic and Social Development Council (NESDC) to liaise with Office of the Board of Investment, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Labor, the Royal Thai Police, and Ministry of Finance to proceed with the necessities.
According to NESDC, the implementation period of these measures would be 5 fiscal years (2022-2026), during which approximately 1 million foreign residents are expected, with the cash flow of 1 trillion Baht in the economic system, an increase of domestic investment by 800 billion Baht, and 270 billion Baht of tax collection. These measures will also supply Thailand with adequate number of talents for targeted business sectors identified in the Master Plan under the National Strategy (2018-2037), i.e., future industries and services, infrastructure, logistic system, and digital.
The cabinet also approved NRSDC’s proposal to evaluate overall achievement of the measures every 5 years. Tax and land ownership privileges will also be put to an end in 5 years after the effective date. However, if, based on the assessment, the measures prove beneficial to the country, extension may be considered as appropriate.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/45829