รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM pleased with continuous growth of textile and garment export


วันอาทิตย์ที่ 10 กรกฎาคม 2565
พิมพ์
PM pleased with continuous growth of textile and garment export
PM pleased with continuous growth of textile and garment export
July 7, 2022, Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha acknowledged continuous growth of textile and garment export in the first half of 2022, which has expanded to US$1.78 billion in value. He thanked concerned agencies for their contribution to the success, and for working together to enhance capacity of Thai products in a tangible manner.
According to Department of Industrial Promotion (DIPROM), export of textile and garment in the 1st quarter of 2022 grows by 13.7%YoY with total export value of US$1,784,2 million, while the total import value accounts for US$1,373.9 million. With the trade surplus of US$410.3 million, it is a good opportunity for Thailand to expedite economic rehabilitation through the development of textile and garment industry. DIPROM’s “Thailand Textiles Tag” has been launched to certify and elevate the standard of Thai textile products. Website: www.thailandtextilestag.com has also been upgraded to facilitate consumers’ search for certified products.
The Government Spokesperson added that the Department of Community Development has also implemented the “OTOP PREMIUM” scheme to elevate the standard and quality of OTOP products. Three hundred 4-5-star OTOPs from all over the country have undergone an improvement process, undertaken by the experts, to ensure that these products better respond to consumer needs. The products will, then, be market tested via the website: www.otoptoday.com, and online markets: Shopee and Lazada, in a bid to increase sales opportunity at the international level.
The Prime Minister is confident in the potential of Thai OTOP products in the international market, and instructed all concerned agencies to rush in developing OTOP products of all forms to expand marketing opportunity. He also thanked concerned agencies and sectors for working together to develop and enhance potential of local products. The Government has set the target to create more opportunities for business operators, and upgrade products on par with the international standard for stable and sustainable economic growth.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/56741