รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM welcoms Austrian investment in digital technology, transport/smart logistics, and health and wellness


วันจันทร์ที่ 7 กุมภาพันธ์ 2565
พิมพ์
PM welcoms Austrian investment in digital technology, transport/smart logistics, and health and wellness
PM welcoms Austrian investment in digital technology, transport/smart logistics, and health and wellness
February 4, 2022, at 1330hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mrs. Eva Hager, Ambassador of the Republic of Austria to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of her completion of tenure. Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister was pleased to meet with the Austrian Ambassador. He commended close and long-standing relations between Thailand and Austria which have spanned for over 153 years, and expressed hope that relations and cooperation would continue to be promoted for the benefits of both countries and the people. The Prime Minister also thanked the Austrian Ambassador for her active role in promoting mutual relations throughout her tenure, and hopes that the incoming Austrian Ambassador would continue to follow the course, as Thailand stands ready to cooperate and provide full support.
The Austrian Ambassador expressed pleasure to meet with the Prime Minister today, and affirmed Austria’s support on Thailand’s hosting of the APEC Summit this year. She congratulated cordial relations between the two countries, and was impressed with Thai people's hospitality and the country's beautiful culture and nature. Thailand and Austria have forged strong cooperation in various areas, especially in trade and investment, and education on which an MOU has been signed to push forward vision into action.
Thailand also stands ready to exchange experiences in COVID-19 situation administration. At present, the country has been reopened to foreign visitors, and the Prime Minister hopes for an increasing exchange of visits and tourism activities between people of the two countries.
Both parties agreed that Thailand and Austria have much potential to enhance mutual trade and investment cooperation and increase trade values in a bid to promote post-COVID-19 economic recovery in a sustainable manner. The Prime Minister extended his invitation to Austrian investors to consider investment in the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC) in the fields of digital and 5G technology, health and wellness, and transport/smart logistics. The Austrian Ambassador agreed that it would be a good opportunity for Austrian investors, considering Thailand's high potential, and committed to push forward investment cooperation expansion between the two countries.
The Prime Minister and the Ambassador also discussed academic and education cooperation, especially vocational education cooperation of which considerable progress has been made. The two countries also signed an MOU on sports cooperation last year under which the Prime Minister expects more cooperation on the exchange of sports coaches.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/51298