รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Thailand and Czech to further strengthen trade and investment cooperation


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 19 พฤษภาคม 2565
พิมพ์
​Thailand and Czech to further strengthen trade and investment cooperation
​Thailand and Czech to further strengthen trade and investment cooperation
May 18, 2022, at 11.30 hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Marek Libřický, Ambassador of the Czech Republic to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his completion of tenure.
Government Spokesperson Thanakorn Wangboonkongchana disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister thanked the Czech Ambassador for his active role in promoting relations between Thailand and the Czech Republic throughout the five years of his tenure. As the year 2024 will mark the 50th anniversary of the diplomatic relations, the Prime Minister hoped that the two countries continue to strengthen relations and cooperation for mutual interest. He also expressed pleasure to have welcomed and met with former Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babiš in 2019, which is the first prime ministerial visit of the Czech Republic to Thailand, and hoped for an increase in future exchange of visits between the two countries at all levels.
The Czech Ambassador expressed appreciation for the cooperation and support provided by the Thai government and concern agencies throughout his tenure. As an ASEAN’s investment hub, Thailand’s trade and investment cooperation is very important to the Czech Republic. He also commended the Government’s administration of the COVID-19 situation, and hoped that Thailand and the Czech Republic resume relations and cooperation in full fledge after the situation eases.
Both parties also discussed the following areas of cooperation:
On trade and investment, the Prime Minister was pleased with the total trade value between the two countries in 2021, which is at US$ 1.6 billion. The Czech Republic is Thailand’s important economic partner, and there are more investment potentials between the two countries, especially in National Defense industry and medical equipment. The Prime Minister also recommended investments in the Eastern Economy Corridor (EEC), and suggested sustainable economic recovery cooperation through adoption of the BCG economic model, which is in line with European Green Deal (EDC), in order to promote economic growth in tandem with efficient and sustainable use of resources.
With regard to tourism cooperation, the Prime Minister was pleased with the popularity of the two countries among each other’s people, and suggested a future plan for tourism exchange development, such as quality-based tourism. Thailand is planning to lift its entry measures, which would better facilitate foreign tourists. The Czech Ambassador also hoped that commercial flights between Bangkok and Prague be launched once the COVID-19 situation eases to further promote tourism cooperation.
The two parties were also pleased with close collaboration between Ministry of Defense of the two countries. Thailand will send a delegation to attend the “Future Forces Forum 2022” this October, upon the invitation of the Czech Republic.
With regard to bilateral and multilateral cooperation, the Prime Minister hoped that the 3rd Joint Commission on Economic Cooperation (JEC) would soon be realized for both countries to be able to seek and identify new areas of cooperation, such as public health, startups, environmental management, and space diplomacy. The Czech Ambassador affirmed his country’s commitment to endorse the resumption of Thailand-EU FTA negotiation and support Thailand within the EU framework.
The Prime Minister took the opportunity to congratulate the Czech Republic for assuming presidency of the Council of the European Union during July- December 2022. He also welcomed and endorsed EU’s adoption of its Strategy for Cooperation in the Indo-Pacific for closer collaboration between ASEAN and EU.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/54744