รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Statement by H.E. Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha (Ret.) Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand as the Regional Coordinator for the ASEAN Group at the Joint Press Conference of the 13th


วันอังคารที่ 30 พฤศจิกายน 2564
พิมพ์
Statement by H.E. Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha (Ret.)  Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand as the Regional Coordinator for the ASEAN Group at the Joint Press Conference of the 13th
Statement by
H.E. Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha (Ret.)
Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand
as the Regional Coordinator for the ASEAN Group
at the Joint Press Conference of the 13th Asia-Europe Meeting
Friday, 26 November 2021
Statement by
H.E. Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha (Ret.)
Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand
as the Regional Coordinator for the ASEAN Group
at the Joint Press Conference of the 13th Asia-Europe Meeting
Friday, 26 November 2021
* * *
Mr. Chair, Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen,
Thailand, as the Regional Coordinator for the ASEAN Group, wishes to congratulate Cambodia on the successful hosting of the 13th Asia-Europe Meeting amidst great challenges. The Meeting has indeed shown the world that Asia and Europe are determined to uphold multilateralism to build a “Next Normal” world that is balanced, inclusive and sustainable.
But beyond upholding multilateralism, ASEM Leaders have also demonstrated the common intention to work together to strengthen multilateralism. If we look back 25 years ago to when the 1st ASEM Summit took place in the ASEAN region, in Thailand, we see clearly that the global context and the challenges facing Asia and Europe have changed significantly. No country can tackle global challenges alone, whether they be climate change, major pandemics such as COVID-19, or international conflicts. We must instead join forces and cooperate through multilateralism, which gives all countries, big and small, the opportunity to play a role and, together, build mutual understanding and trust on the basis of equal partnership and mutual benefit.
I believe that one approach to strengthening multilateralism is to strive for
a balance of all things, both in terms of international relations and addressing global challenges. Indeed, many of the global challenges that we face stem from the imbalances caused by human action. We must therefore learn from these crises and seek to prevent them from happening again so as to ensure human security for the people.
How then will this Summit benefit the 4 billion people of ASEM?
I see 3 key benefits as follows:
First, ASEM will help to ensure a post-COVID-19 recovery that is inclusive and sustainable. The Meeting attached high importance to a balanced and envinronmentally-friendly recovery, the exchange of best practices, and giving all groups in society the opportunity to take part in building a post-COVID-19 world where people have security and wealth, and can be confident that crises caused by imbalance will not be repeated. In addition, both regions will strive to build a Next Normal world where science, technology and innovation as well as support to the business sector, especially SMEs, will form the key basis for growth. In this regard, I was pleased to join with other Leaders in adopting the Phnom Penh Statement on the Post-COVID-19 Socio-Economic Recovery.
Second, ASEM will help to bring our two regions closer together.
The Summit adopted the document on “The Way Forward on ASEM Connectivity”,
which is an initiative of the ASEAN Group, and provides a framework for connectivity cooperation in areas such as laws and regulations, trade and investment, the digital economy, and promoting people-to-people connectivity as well as travel between Asia and Europe. I believe that strengthening connectivity will form a good basis for possible future free trade agreements between the regions, which will help to boost employment and revitalise the tourism sector in both Asia and Europe.
Lastly, ASEM will help to enhance cooperation in the use of digital technology in the Next Normal era, bearing in mind both the benefits and harms of such technology, especially for the youth. Indeed, the youth have been particularly affected by school closures during the pandemic. In this regard, allow me to give you an example of an ASEM initiative spearheaded by Thailand to promote the virtual exchange of students using digital technology. Not only did it provide opportunities for the youth in the two regions to meet through digital platforms, but it also helped them to broaden their horizons on important global issues such as the SDGs. I believe that the youth of ASEM will be the key drivers of change in our world; and Thailand, as host of the ASEAN Education Ministers’ Meeting this December, is ready and willing to take forward this initiative in a concrete manner.
Thank you.
* * * * *

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/48910