รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Statement by General Prayut Chan-o-cha (Ret.) Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand at the Opening Ceremony of the 2022 China International Consumer Products Expo (Hainan Expo)


วันจันทร์ที่ 25 กรกฎาคม 2565
พิมพ์
Statement by General Prayut Chan-o-cha (Ret.) Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand at the Opening Ceremony of the 2022 China International Consumer Products Expo (Hainan Expo)
Statement by General Prayut Chan-o-cha (Ret.) Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand at the Opening Ceremony of the 2022 China International Consumer Products Expo (Hainan Expo) and the First Global Consumption Forum, 25 July 2022
Distinguished Leaders of the People’s Republic of China,
Distinguished Leaders of Hainan Province,
Distinguished Representatives of International Organizations, public and private sectors from Thailand, Chinese and friends from other countries,
Distinguished Guests,
Ladies and Gentlemen,
“Dajia hao” Sawaddee Krub.
It is my great honour to be invited to give congratulatory remarks to the China International Consumer Products Expo (Hainan Expo) for the second time and the first Global Consumption Forum. This demonstrates the growing economic ties between Thailand and China and reaffirms our aim to increase international trade and to support China’s policy initiative on development of Hainan Free Trade Port. On this occasion, I would like to congratulate China and the Chinese people including the Chinese athletes that achieved great success in hosting the Winter Olympic Games and Winter Paralympic Games. I would also like to thank the Chinese government for receiving Her Royal Highness Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn who visited China to attend the opening ceremony at the invitation of the Chinese government.
The Royal Thai government attaches high importance to strengthening cooperation with provinces in China, including Hainan province and also in all dimensions of cooperation, including economic, trade, tourism and agricultural areas. Therefore, we are pleased to fully support the Hainan Expo and the Global Consumption Forum. Our Thai agencies and leading companies have brought high-quality products to display in the Expo. We hope our participation will raise awareness and popularity of Thai products among Chinese consumers, promoting more trade and investment and foster closer cooperation between Thailand and Hainan province.
I congratulate Hainan on its steady progress toward developing its Free Trade Port, which has resulted in a fast-growing economy and foreign trade and investment. Given the RCEP taking into effect at the beginning of this year, the organizing of Hainan Expo and the Global Consumption Forum is timely. It will help promote closer cooperation in terms of trades, services and supply chain, and also facilitate Thai and Chinese businesses to gain greater access to their respective markets. At the same time, the Hainan Free Trade Port will play a crucial role in bridging China to the world in areas of trade and investment under the “Belt and Road Initiative.”
The idea of the free trade of the Hainan Free Trade Port is in accordance with the goal of promoting economic cooperation of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC). Thailand will be the APEC host country this year under the theme, “Open. Connect. Balance.” It focuses on facilitating trade and investment, restoring connectivity, and promoting inclusive and sustainable economic goals.
Lastly, I wish the Hainan Expo and the Global Consumption Forum a great success. I am certain that Hainan province will develop into a high-standard free trade port and an important gateway for connectivity between China and Thailand and other countries.
I would like to reaffirm that Thailand will continue to promote economic cooperation with Hainan province in areas that are mutually beneficial including participating in developing Hainan Free Trade Port. I would also like to reaffirm Thailand’s readiness to cooperate with China in developing our “Comprehensive Strategic Partnership” to benefit our peoples and the regional and global community.
Thank you.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/57213