รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Remarks By H.E. General Prayut Chan-o-Cha, Prime Minister of Thailand


วันศุกร์ที่ 12 พฤศจิกายน 2564
พิมพ์
Remarks By H.E. General Prayut Chan-o-Cha, Prime Minister of Thailand
At the World Leaders Summit of the 26th session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP 26), Glasgow, Scotland
Mr. President,
Excellencies,
I am here today to underscore the utmost importance that Thailand attaches to the problem of climate change.  We are prepared to collaborate with every nation, and every sector, to reach our common goal of solving the gravest challenge of our time.  This is a matter of life and death for our world, and the future of our children.
At present, the amount of Green House Gas (GHG) emitted by Thailand is about 0.72 percent of the total global emissions.  However, Thailand is one of the ten countries most severely affected by the atmospheric degradation. It was why I participated in the Paris Climate Change Conference in 2015, and Thailand was among the first group of nations that ratified the Paris Agreement.
Our commitments are not empty words.  We have fulfilled every single pledge we made to the international community, fully and unremittingly.
Under the framework of the UNFCCC, Thailand set our NAMA goal to reduce the GHG from the energy and transport sectors by at least 7% by 2020.  However, in 2019, we were able to reduce the GHG by 17% which is more than doubled the targeted level, and more than one year ahead of schedule.
Moreover, Thailand was among the first nations to submit the revised NDC to reduce the GHG emissions, and put in place plans at both national and local levels.  Also, Thailand was among the first nations to submit the Long-Term Low GHG Emissions Development Strategy (LT-LEDS) in line with the Paris Agreement.  This demonstrates our seriousness in the fight against climate change.
Today, I am here to express Thailand’s willingness to be more aggressive in addressing the climate change challenges in every way and by every means possible, aiming at reaching carbon neutrality in 2050, and Net Zero Emissions in or before 2065.  With the adequate, timely and equitable support of technology transfer and cooperation, and most importantly, the availability of and access to ample green financing facilities, Thailand can increase our NDC to 40%, and reach the Net Zero Emissions in 2050.
As a forward-looking strategy, Thailand has declared the Bio-Circular-Green economy model or BCG as our national agenda.  It is a paradigm shift that leads to eco-friendly economic growth. This model is the main agenda of the APEC meeting that Thailand is hosting next year.
In parting, I would like to point out that time is running out, and we can no longer afford to be complacent in combatting climate change, for it means the end of the world as we know it.  This is a war that man can join hands, not to destroy one another, but to fight against a common enemy we ourselves created, and to right the wrong we inflicted upon this planet called earth.  Now the earth has spoken that enough is enough. The stakes are high; the ecosystem that puts food on our table, the water we drink, and the air we breathe must be preserved.  It is the task that demands immense valor, persistence and wisdom.  The ultimate beneficiary of our victory is our children.  For all of us, there is simply no “Plan B, “because there is no “Planet B” that is a substitute for the one we now call “home.”
Thank you.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/47713