รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand sent a congratulatory letter to H.E. Mr. KISHIDA Fumio, Prime Minister of Japan, on the occasion of his assumption of office


วันพุธที่ 6 ตุลาคม 2564
พิมพ์
Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand sent a congratulatory letter to H.E. Mr. KISHIDA Fumio, Prime Minister of Japan, on the occasion of his assumption of office
Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand sent a congratulatory letter to H.E. Mr. KISHIDA Fumio, Prime Minister of Japan, on the occasion of his assumption of office
On 4 October 2021, H.E. General Prayut Chan-o-cha, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand, sent a congratulatory letter to H.E. Mr. KISHIDA Fumio, Prime Minister of Japan, on the occasion of his assumption of office as follows:
Office of the Prime Minister,
Government House,
BANGKOK.
October B.E. 2564 (2021)
Excellency,
On behalf of the Royal Thai Government and people of the Kingdom of Thailand, I have the honour to extend to you my sincere congratulations on your election as President of the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) of Japan and appointment as Prime Minister of Japan. Your election clearly demonstrates the high trust and confidence placed on you to lead Japan towards continued progress and prosperity while proactively contributing to the international community during a time of many unprecedented challenges to human security, world peace, and the global economy.
I would like to take this opportunity to commend the strong bonds of friendship and cooperation between Thailand and Japan that have flourished for many years. Next year marks the 135th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between our two countries, which is an important opportunity for us to commemorate our close and long-standing relations, including the warm friendship between our peoples. In this regard, I look forward to working closely with you to build upon the Comprehensive Strategic Partnership between Thailand and Japan so that we may continue to mutually benefit from the prominent areas in our collaboration, and also contribute towards strengthening our region and international cooperation at large.
I would also like to take this opportunity to wish you a successful outcome in the general elections in Japan this coming November.
Accept, Excellency, the assurances of my highest consideration.
General                  (Ret.)
(Prayut Chan-o-cha)
Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand
His Excellency
Mr. KISHIDA Fumio,
Prime Minister of Japan,
TOKYO.
https://www.mfa.go.th/en/content/pmmessagetonewjapanesepm05102564-2

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/46619