รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Remarks by H.E. General Prayut Chan-o-cha, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand at Joint Press Conference with H.E. Mr. Phankham Viphavanh, Prime Minister of the Lao People’s


วันพุธที่ 1 มิถุนายน 2565
พิมพ์
Remarks by H.E. General Prayut Chan-o-cha, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand at Joint Press Conference with H.E. Mr. Phankham Viphavanh, Prime Minister of the Lao People’s
1 June 2022, Santi Maitri Building, Government House
On behalf of the Royal Thai Government and the Thai people, I am pleased and honoured to welcome H.E. Mr. Phankham Viphavanh, Prime Minister of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, on his first official visit to Thailand.
I also would like to congratulate Prime Minister Phankham for the honorary doctorate degree in political science presented to him by the Maejo University this morning. The degree was conferred upon him in recognition of his outstanding role in laying a strong educational foundation for the country, which reflects his profound understanding on the importance of education for sustainable socio-economic development of the Lao PDR.
Both sides attach high importance to this official visit, as underscored by the fact that there are several key members of the Lao Cabinet and leading members of the Lao private sector accompanying Prime Minister Phankham on this visit. On the Thai side, several key ministers also took part in the bilateral meeting which we have just concluded, while a large number of members of the Thai private sector attended the business networking activity this afternoon with their Lao counterparts.
Thailand and the Lao PDR are close neighbours. Our peoples share a deep sense of kinship and strong bonds of friendship. This first official visit of Prime Minister Phankham is, therefore, one that is most meaningful to the peoples of the two countries.
Today is a momentous day in the relations between Thailand and the Lao PDR. Our two countries agreed to open a new chapter of our relations by elevating our cooperation to a “Strategic Partnership for Growth and Sustainable Development.”
Prime Minister Phankham and I witnessed the signing of “the Five-Year Action Plan on Thai – Lao Strategic Partnership for Growth and Sustainable Development (2022 – 2026), which will guide us in advancing our partnership towards closer and stronger cooperation in all aspects.
Prime Minister Phankham and I also witnessed the exchange of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Government of the Lao PDR regarding Cooperation on the Development of Electrical Energy in the Lao PDR 2022, and the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Government of the Lao PDR on Thai - Lao Arboretum Project. Moreover, I am pleased to hand over to Prime Minister Phankham the support of the Royal Thai Government on the establishment of Thai - Lao Friendship Centre for Social Development in Xaythany District of the Vientiane Capital, which is aimed at providing a one stop service and support for victims of human trafficking.
Prime Minister Phankham and I also had an extensive discussion on a broad range of issues covering all dimensions of Thai-Lao relations in an atmosphere of friendship, which will benefit the peoples of both countries. Key outcomes are as follows:
On economic cooperation
First, Thailand and the Lao PDR agreed to work closely to expeditiously revive the livelihoods of peoples and economic activities along the border areas that have been adversely affected by impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Prime Minister Phankham and I are pleased that today is the first day that all international border points of entry between our two countries have reopened. Both sides will further coordinate to resume operations at the remaining temporary border points of entry at the earliest opportunity.
Second, We agreed to expeditiously revive tourism cooperation to create jobs and income for our peoples. Both sides will work on the conclusion of an action plan to promote tourism linkages between the two countries, especially the tourism route between Luang Prabang Province of the Lao PDR and the Northern Provinces of Thailand. On this occasion, I reaffirmed Thailand’s readiness to support the Lao PDR on the construction of Xieng Man – Luang Prabang Bridge to promote tourism connectivity along this corridor.
Third, we agreed to further accelerate and expand our transport connectivity, particularly the rail linkage between the two countries through the construction of a new railway bridge near the First Thai – Lao Friendship Bridge (Nong Khai and Vientiane). We have instructed relevant agencies of both countries to engage in discussions and finalise the bridge design as soon as possible by the end of this year. We also agreed to work together to utitlise the full potential of Laos – China Railway for the benefits of both countries.
Fourth, we agreed to advance key infrastructure projects and further harmonise relevant standards and regulations. These include construction of the Fifth Thai - Lao Friendship Bridge (Buengkan - Bolikhamxay) and the Sixth Thai - Lao Friendship Bridge (Ubon Ratchathani - Salavan), improvement of Road Number 12 (R12) in the Lao PDR (Nakhon Phanom – Khammouane – Napao), and the commencement of the Common Control Area (CCA) at mutually agreed international points of entry to minimise costs and time for custom clearance at border crossings which will benefit the peoples of both countries.
Fifth, we will strengthen our cooperation on digital economy which is vital for national development in the modern economy. Thailand stands ready to support the Lao PDR on the development of digital skills and capacity-building of human resources, as well as the improvement of international payment system. Furthermore, we will enhance our cooperation on clean energy.
On security cooperation
Thailand and the Lao PDR will step up border patrol to prevent illegal border crossings and further strengthen cooperation in the prevention and suppression of drug trafficking. On this occasion, I conveyed Thailand’s readiness to support the Lao PDR on further investigation of perpetrators, arrest cases and provision of modern equipment. Moreover, the two countries will fully cooperate to tackle organised crimes such as “Call Centre Gangs” and human trafficking in order to prevent our peoples from falling victim to these criminal networks.
On cooperation at the people-to-people level
Prime Minister Phankham and I attach high importance to forging closer cooperation at the people-to-people level in order to lay a strong foundation for advancing our bilateral relations in all aspects.
We agreed to further strengthen bilateral development cooperation in public health, particularly between sister hospitals along the Thai – Lao border. We will also work closely in the areas of agriculture and human resources development.
On this occasion, I am delighted to announce that the Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation of Thailand is ready to provide over 700 scholarships to young people from the Lao PDR so that they may pursue higher education in Thailand. We also believe that this will provide good opportunities to bring youths of our countries closer together. We also agreed to forge closer cooperation between the mass media of both countries to help promote better and deeper understanding at the people-to-people level.
Lastly, on sub-regional and regional cooperation
Given rapid changes in international situations, Prime Minister Phankham and I agreed that Thailand and the Lao PDR should closely coordinate and enhance cooperation at both sub-regional and regional levels in order to be better prepared for present and future challenges. Thailand fully supports the Lao PDR as the host of the 10th ACMECS Summit this year, which will be an important opportunity for countries in the Mekong Sub-region to unite their efforts towards achieving a strong and sustainable economic recovery.
Most importantly, Thailand and the Lao PDR reaffirmed our commitment to working closely to promote ASEAN solidarity and further integration among ASEAN Member States, which is essential for ASEAN in order to continue playing important roles in the maintenance of regional security, stability and development.
* * * * *

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/55295