รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-2022 New Year Message by Prime Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha


วันจันทร์ที่ 3 มกราคม 2565
พิมพ์
2022 New Year Message by Prime Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha
2022 New Year Message by Prime Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha
2022 New Year Message by Prime Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha
Fellow Thai people,
on the occasion of the New Year 2022, I would like to invite you all to pray to the virtue of the Buddha, the Dharma, the Sangha, and all the sacred power in the world to bless His Majesty the King, Her Majesty the Queen, Her Majesty Queen Sirikit the Queen Mother, and members of the royal family happiness, prosperity, and long lives. May His Majesty be our gracious and spiritual inspiration forever.
Throughout the year 2021, we, Thai people, have encountered numerous challenges in the likes of the increasingly aggravating COVID-19 situation and flood disaster, and I would like to thank everyone for joining forces in addressing and mitigating these challenges and helping out others, which demonstrate Thai people’s love and solidarity to overcome the hardships. This new year, let us review and apply the lessons learned to live our lives in a conscious, careless, and harmonized manner for the interests of both ourselves and the country.
I strongly hope that the fellow Thai people would take the festive opportunity to celebrate with families, relatives, and friends under strict public health measures. Those who travel during the New Year festivities are urged to stay conscious and take into consideration others’ and their own safety in order for us to enter the new year with happiness, freshness, and success in all endeavors.
Fellow Thai people, on the auspicious occasion of the New Year 2022, may I invite the virtue of all sacredness, and the royal prestige of His Majesty the King and Her Majesty the Queen to bless your happiness and prosperity. May you be spared from all the dangers, and may your wishes come true.
Happy New Year.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/50163