รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Statement by His Excellency General Prayut Chan-o-cha (Ret.) the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand at the International Strategic Dialogue Meeting on noncommunicable diseas


วันอังคารที่ 12 เมษายน 2565
Statement by His Excellency General Prayut Chan-o-cha (Ret.) the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand at the International Strategic Dialogue Meeting on noncommunicable diseas
Statement by
His Excellency General Prayut Chan-o-cha (Ret.)
the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand
at the International Strategic Dialogue Meeting on noncommunicable diseases (NCDs) and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
Statement by
His Excellency General Prayut Chan-o-cha (Ret.)
the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand
at the International Strategic Dialogue Meeting on noncommunicable diseases (NCDs) and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
on 12 April 2022
****
President of the Republic of Ghana
Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Norway
Director-General of the World Health Organization
Distinguished Guests,
It is my pleasure and honour to participate in the meeting today. I wish to express my appreciation to the Government of Ghana, the Government of Norway, and the World Health Organization (WHO) for initiating this forum to further strengthen international cooperation in the prevention and control of NCDs, which are the number one threat to human’s health and well-being globally.
Thailand has introduced measures and  taken concrete actions in order to achieve the SDGs including  SDG 3.4 on “reducing by one third premature mortality from NCDs” and SDG 3.8 on “achieving universal health coverage” by 2030. Thailand has succeeded in expanding access to health services under the UHC scheme to cover 99.6% of the population since 2021, which is the highest coverage in the South-East Asia region according to the WHO. Nevertheless, tackling NCDs still remains one of our key challenges. The Government of Thailand has, therefore, declared prevention and control of NCDs its national agenda. All relevant stakeholders are encouraged to take part in developing national strategies and action plans on NCDs. Its progress reports must be submitted to the Cabinet for monitoring and review purposes. This also helps mobilize resource to invest in health promotion as a part of NCDs prevention.
The COVID-19 pandemic has posed limitations in and challenges to the delivery and provision of NCD-related services. Patients with NCDs are also among the high-risk groups of COVID-19. I believe that we need to integrate prevention and treatment of NCDs into the public health emergency plan at national, regional, and global levels for better preparedness and response to the future public health crises. Furthermore, a comprehensive and inclusive UHC system also contributes significantly to better management and greater access to health services including NCDs. Thailand stands ready to share our experiences and enhance collaboration with other countries in this area.
Finally, Thailand wishes to reaffirm our commitment to the Political Declaration of the 3rd High-Level Meeting of the UNGA on the Prevention and Control of NCDs as we continue to move towards the achievement of SDG 3.4 and other health- related goals for good health and well-being of our people.
Thank you and Sawasdee krub.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/53574