รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Statement by General Prayut Chan-o-cha (Ret.) Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand at the Launch of the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework (IPEF) 23 May 2022 via teleconference


วันจันทร์ที่ 23 พฤษภาคม 2565
พิมพ์
Statement by General Prayut Chan-o-cha (Ret.) Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand at the Launch of the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework (IPEF) 23 May 2022 via teleconference
Statement by General Prayut Chan-o-cha (Ret.) Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand at the Launch of the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework (IPEF) 23 May 2022 via teleconference
President Biden,
Prime Minister Kishida,
Excellencies,
I wish to express my thanks to President Biden and Prime Minister Kishida for hosting the launch of the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework, or IPEF, today. I would also like to commend and congratulate President Biden for the initiative which reflects the determination of the United States to play a constructive role in the Indo-Pacific, especially in promoting economic prosperity in the region, which has also been well received among ASEAN member states.
IPEF comprises a conceptual framework and a set of a loose principles that will serve to promote economic cooperation, trade and investment.  It will lead to four pillars of cooperation that will advance development in various areas – be it in terms of policy, laws, industries, and the environment. This will enhance access to sources of finance and technology in order to progress our national development, and promote supply chain resilience. Currently, it is still a work in progress, with detailed consultations planned in the near future.
For Thailand’s part, we have long been a proponent of open trade to foster economic resilience throughout our history, with approximately 60% of our GDP coming from the export of goods and services. We highly value the promotion of regional cooperation to expand trade and investment opportunities to their fullest potential. At the same time, we attach utmost importance in steering our country and people towards a future that is secure, prosperous, and sustainable. Thus, we are determined to foster an economic growth that is balanced and environmentally-friendly through the Bio-Circular-Green (BCG) Economy Model. This encompasses efforts to accelerate our energy transition towards clean energy, reduce carbon emissions, promote the digital economy, and create added value through the application of science, technology, and innovation.
We currently face a myriad of emerging challenges in today’s world. No country can ever confront such challenges alone. I am, therefore, pleased that IPEF emphasizes the inclusive participation of countries across the region to promote prosperity, sustainability, and inclusivity together.
Lastly, I wish to reiterate that world history, and that of Thailand, has illustrated to us that economic growth and expansion of trade and investment will only be most beneficial for all of us if it is constructive, not politicized, and gears toward solidarity. Thailand upholds the principles of free trade as demonstrated in our ongoing open trade with various countries.  We are strongly committed to pursuing close and constructive trade cooperation with our partner countries. Hence, I am confident that an inclusive economic cooperation within the region will lead to economic growth and prosperity for all of us and reap most tangible benefits for our peoples.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/54907