รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Statement by H.E. General Prayut Chan-o-cha (Ret.) Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand at Plenary Session 2 of the 13th Asia-Europe Meeting “COVID-19 and Socio-Economic Re


วันอังคารที่ 30 พฤศจิกายน 2564
พิมพ์
Statement by  H.E. General Prayut Chan-o-cha (Ret.) Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand at Plenary Session 2 of the 13th Asia-Europe Meeting   “COVID-19 and Socio-Economic Re
Statement by
H.E. General Prayut Chan-o-cha (Ret.)
Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand
at Plenary Session 2 of the 13th Asia-Europe Meeting
“COVID-19 and Socio-Economic Recovery / Development”
on Friday 26 November 2021
Statement by
H.E. General Prayut Chan-o-cha (Ret.)
Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand
at Plenary Session 2 of the 13th Asia-Europe Meeting
“COVID-19 and Socio-Economic Recovery / Development”
on Friday 26 November 2021
* * * * * *
Mr. Chair, Your Majesty, Excellencies,
I wish to join others in thanking Cambodia for hosting this Meeting, which has given Leaders from both Asia and Europe the opportunity to join hands in finding solutions to today’s global problems.
Our world is facing myriad challenges on all sides stemming from imbalance -- whether they be the COVID-19 crisis, which has claimed over 5 million lives and affected people’s ways of life the world over, or the climate crisis, which has resulted in natural disasters and undermined human security. These global problems further reaffirm the need to “strengthen multilateralism for shared growth”, as no country can tackle these challenges alone.
But the key question we need to ask ourselves is: how do we turn multilateralism into tangible cooperation in the post-COVID-19 world, to enhance human security for the benefit of the more than 4 billion people in our two regions?
To this end, I wish to share with the Meeting the lessons learned from Thailand’s experience in combating the COVID-19 pandemic, and to propose cooperation areas between Asia and Europe in the Next Normal, in order to prevent such a crisis from reoccurring.
Firstly, the recovery process needs to be balanced. History has taught us time and time again that crises facing humanity are the results of the imbalance between economic development and nature. Asia and Europe should therefore cooperate to promote economic recovery policies that take into account the balance of all things. For Thailand, we are pursuing the Bio-Circular-Green, or BCG, economic model as a strategy to transform the country and shift perspectives on our growth path and way of life. This should take us to the Next Normal in a balanced, inclusive and sustainable manner. In addition, Thailand has set the goal of achieving carbon neutrality by 2050, and Net Zero Emissions in 2065. If Asia and Europe are able to enhance cooperation in areas such as green financing and technological transfer, I am confident that many countries, including Thailand, will be able to meet these targets ahead of schedule.
Asia and Europe should also work together to support green start-ups and SMEs for a balanced recovery.
I wish to mention here a company by the name of Enapter as a case in point. It is a Thai-German-Italian start-up which has built a model residential complex relying solely on solar power and hydrogen energy.
It is the world’s first solar-hydrogen powered residential development not connected to a power grid. The project received the Earthshot Prize from Prince William, Duke of Cambridge, during the recent COP26.
Secondly, the recovery effort must make full use of digital technology. The COVID-19 pandemic has shown us the power of digital technology, which has permanently transformed our lives. I would like to share an example of the use of digital technology to facilitate exchange among youths. In September this year, Thailand, in partnership with the EU, the UK and SEAMEO-RIHED, organised an ASEM workshop on youth learners’ virtual mobility using digital platforms. I hope that the ASEM Education Ministers’ Meeting, which will be hosted by Thailand in December, will take forward the recommendations from this Workshop to concrete implementation.
Another notable example is the ASEAN Business Advisory Council’s initiative to promote comprehensive digital trade connectivity. The UK and Japan have supported ASEAN in conducting a study and developing digital trade platforms. The initiative will help facilitate fast and efficient trade and investment between our two regions.
Lastly, the recovery effort must focus on enhancing connectivity. The COVID-19 pandemic showed very clearly the problems of a world without connectivity. But at the same time, it has also further emphasized the importance of connectivity between Asia and Europe. Thailand has started to safely open up to international travel. I thus believe that Asia and Europe should expedite our discussions on the mutual acceptance and recognition of digital vaccine certificates to facilitate travel between the two regions.
I am pleased, therefore, that today’s Meeting will adopt the paper on “The Way Forward on ASEM Connectivity”, which will bring about enhanced connectivity between the two regions for the benefit of the people. And this will help us to build a secure and prosperous future that leaves no one, and no country, behind.
Thank you.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/48908