รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Remarks by H.E. General Prayut Chan-o-cha, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand at the Joint Press Conference with H.E. Mr.Kishida Fumio, Prime Minister of Japan


วันอังคารที่ 3 พฤษภาคม 2565
Remarks by H.E. General Prayut Chan-o-cha,  Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Thailand at the Joint Press Conference with  H.E. Mr.Kishida Fumio, Prime Minister of Japan
Monday, 2 May 2022 at Santi Maitri Lang Nai Building, Government House
Your Excellency Mr. Kishida Fumio, Prime Minister of Japan,
Distinguished guests and all members of the press,
On behalf of the Royal Thai Government, I am pleased and honoured to welcome H.E. Mr. Kishida Fumio, Prime Minister of Japan, on an official visit to Thailand.
Prime Minister Kishida’s visit to Thailand is very meaningful since it coincides with the 135th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries this year, Thailand’s coordinationship for ASEAN-Japan relations and Thailand’s hosting of the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC).
Prior to this, Prime Minister Kishida and I had a discussion to find ways to strengthen the Strategic Partnership between Thailand and Japan in all dimensions, including given challenges from international economic and political situations, and to set the future direction of relations.
Prime Minister Kishida and I concurred on six important issues as follows:
First is to elevate the Strategic Partnership between Thailand and Japan.
On the occasion of the 135th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Thailand and Japan this year, both sides merit in considering the elevation of the bilateral relations from a “Strategic Partnership” to a “Comprehensive Strategic Partnership” to reflect the close and progressive relations.
Second is to enhance economic cooperation for the future.
Thailand and Japan are drafting the 5-Year Joint Strategic Plan on Thailand-Japan Strategic Economic Partnership and plan to announce its entry into effect at the 6th Meeting of High-Level Joint Commission (HLJC), which Japan will host during the second half of this year.
One of the issues, on which both Thailand and Japan attached high importance, is supply chain connectivity to further cover various areas in line with the countries’ economic development plans, such as the Bio-Circular-Green Economy, technology on smart agriculture, 5G communication technology, cooperation on artificial intelligence, robotics, development of electric vehicles and components, infrastructure development, cooperation on research and development, as well as the establishment of human resource development centers with a view to enhancing capability for Thai people.
Third is to strengthen cooperation for the Post-COVID-19 recovery.
I expressed appreciation to the Government of Japan for providing various forms of assistance to Thailand to alleviate the impact of the COVID-19 situation, such as the provision of AstraZeneca vaccines, oxygen concentrators, and vaccine storage equipments, as well as the announcement of the Japanese Yen loan, of which the Exchange of Note was signed by the Minister of Finance of Thailand and the Ambassador of Japan to Thailand.
In addition, Prime Minister Kishida and I agreed to further enhance cooperation in healthcare between the two countries to address emerging diseases in the future and to gradually relax immigration measures in accordance with the developments in COVID-19 situation in order for the peoples of the two countries to incrementally resume travel.
Fourth is to enhance defence, security and judicial cooperation.
Prime Minister Kishida and I are pleased with the close defence and security cooperation between Thailand and Japan. The signing of the Agreement between the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Government of Japan Concerning the Transfer of Defense Equipment and Technology between the Ministries of Defence of Thailand and Japan would support the strengthening of defence cooperation between the two countries and incentivize Japanese investment in the Thai defence industry, which is one of the targeted industries.
Fifth is to enhance cooperation in the development of the sub-region and region.
Prime Minister Kishida and I are satisfied with the Partnership for Development between Thailand and Japan and the enhancement of technical cooperation in third countries, such as countries in the Mekong sub-region. Furthermore, both sides will cooperate under Mekong-Japan Cooperation and the Ayeyawady – Chao Phraya – Mekong Economic Cooperation Strategy (ACMECS). In this regard, I expressed my appreciation for Japan’s contribution of 1.38 million USD to the ACMECS Development Fund (ACMDF).
As Thailand is the country coordinator for ASEAN-Japan Dialogue Relations, I reaffirmed Thailand's commitment to strengthen ASEAN-Japan cooperation in all dimensions, particularly on the occasion of the 50th Anniversary of ASEAN-Japan cooperation next year, including synergizing cooperation in the key priority areas under the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific (AOIP) and Japan’s Free and Open Indo-Pacific (FOIP) and the Thailand’s readiness to host the ASEAN Centre for Public Health Emergencies and Emerging Diseases or ACPHEED.
I thanked Prime Minister Kishida for Japan’s support of Thailand’s hosting of APEC 2022 under the theme “Open. Connect. Balance.” I reaffirmed my readiness to welcome Prime Minister Kishida on another visit to Thailand to attend the APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting in November this year.
Sixth is to enhance cooperation in responding to regional and international situations.
Prime Minister Kishida and I exchanged views on important regional and international issues. Concerning the situation in Ukraine, Thailand and Japan reaffirmed the principles of territorial integrity, international law, and the United Nations Charter. Both sides expressed concern over the escalation of tension in the situation and urged all relevant parties to cease all hostilities and violence and exercise utmost restraint. Moreover, Thailand and Japan reaffirmed the readiness to join hands with the international community to provide continued humanitarian assistance to the people of Ukraine. In this regard, I proposed a concept on peace process as a new approach towards ending confrontation, which calls for the need to change the narrative of the Ukraine situation from escalation and confrontation to humanitarian consideration for those who are affected by the Ukraine situation.  In addition, Thailand proposed a similar approach to resolve the situation in Myanmar and attached importance to humanitarian assistance for the people of Myanmar.
The outcomes of today’s meeting between Prime Minister Kishida and I reflect the inclusive and comprehensive Strategic Partnership between Thailand and Japan. I affirmed to Prime Minister Kishida the commitment by the Royal Thai Government and I to work with Prime Minister Kishida and the Government of Japan to implement the deliverables of this visit into tangible results for the benefit of the countries, peoples, and region at large.
Thank you. Arigatou gozaimasu.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/54157