รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The Cultivating and Royal Ploughing Ceremony of the year 2022,


วันศุกร์ที่ 6 พฤษภาคม 2565
The Cultivating and Royal Ploughing Ceremony of the year 2022,
The Cultivating and Royal Ploughing Ceremony of the year 2022, bringing propitiousness to the nation’s crops, boosting farmers’ morale and heralding the rice-growing season to begin.
The Royal Ploughing Ceremony is held on Friday, May 13, 2022 at Sanam Luang ground in front of the Grand Palace. The Ceremony is presided over by His Majesty King Maha Vajiralongkorn Phra Vajiraklaochaoyuhua and the auspicious time for ploughing takes place between 08:19 – 08:49 a.m.
The Cultivating and Royal Ploughing Ceremony consist of two ceremonies which are Phra Ratchaphiti Phuetchamongkhon or the Cultivating Ceremony and Phra Ratchaphithi Charot Phra Nangkhan Raek Na Khwan or the Royal Ploughing Ceremony. The Cultivating Ceremony, which is a Buddhist ceremony, is performed on the first day of the ceremony in the Royal Chapel at Wat Phra Si Rattana Satsadaram. in the Grand Palace on Thursday, May 12, 2022. The ceremony is presided over by His Majesty the King. He performs religious rituals and prays for the abundance of the national’s crops. The Royal Ploughing Ceremony, which is an ancient Bhramanic rite, is performed on Friday, May 13, 2022 at Sanam Luang ground.
The two Royal Ceremonies are related to each other. They are aimed at bringing propitiousness to the nation’s crops, boosting farmers’ morale as well as heralding the beginning of the rice-growing season, scheduled to be held in the sixth month of every year or in the month of May, citing appropriate auspicious time according to tradition, marking the traditional start of the rice growing season which is the main occupation of Thai people.
For the Royal Ploughing Ceremony in this year, the auspicious time for ploughing is between 08:09 – 08:49 a.m. Mr. Thongplew Kongjun, Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives will perform as Phraya Raek Na (Lord of the Royal Ploughing Ceremony), while the Celestial Maidens carrying golden baskets filled with rice seed will be represented by Ms. Natchaya Srisuksawat, Technical Officer, Senior Professional Level Agricultural Land Reform Office and Ms. Artittaya Thongkamkaew, Subject Matter Specialist, Professional Level Department of Agricultural Extension. Meanwhile, the Celestial Maidens carrying silver baskets filled with rice seed will be represented by Ms. Kanyarat Sawetnanthikul, Senior Professional Level, Office of the Permanent Secretary for Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives and Ms. Chonthicha Thong-On, Veterinarian, Professional Level, Department of Livestock Development. While, a pair of sacred oxen (Phra Ko Raek Na), namely Phra Ko Por and Phra Ko Piang (their names mean “sufficiency”), were selected as sacred oxen to plough furrows in the ceremonial ground. The physical measurement of Phra Ko Pho has a height of 165 centimeters, body length of 225 centimeters, completeness of chest size is 214 centimeters, age 10 years. While Phra Ko Piang has a height of 169 centimeters, body length 238 centimeters, completeness of chest size 209 centimeters, age 10 years. The reserved oxen are Phra Kho Perm and Phra Ko Pool (their names mean “prosperity”), which are white Lamphun cattle breed.
This year, the Rice Department is responsible for the preparation of royally bestowed rice varieties and plant varieties which was used in the royal ceremonies by requesting the royal permission to use rice varieties to plant in the 2021 rice field, experimental projects in the Royal Chitralada Project to be used in the Royal Ceremony of the year 2022, consisting of lowland rice with 6 varieties ranging from Brown RD43 Rice 125 kgs, Brown RD85 Rice 589 kgs, Brown RD87 Rice 300 kgs, Pathum Thani 1 Rice 399 kgs, Khao Dawk Mali 105 Rice 245 kgs and Brown RD6 Rice 70 kgs. The paddy seeds used at the royal ceremony with a total weighed of 1,728 kilograms and were classified as “Royally Planted Rice Varieties” packed in plastic envelopes for distribution to the well-wisher and farmers across the country take it as a cherish possession and auspiciousness in farming.
On the day of the Royal Ceremony, Phraya Raek Na will perform a rite to predict the amount of rainfall during the coming during the coming season by selecting one of the three pieces of cloth that are in different lengths. If the shortest one (4 khueb) is chosen, it denotes that there will be abundant rainfall, paddy in the upland areas will be plentiful, but paddy in the lowland areas may suffer from damage. If the medium one (5 khueb) is picked. There will be an average amount of rainfall, rice will be abundant, fruits and meat will be bountiful. If the longest one (6 khuep) is selected, It means that there will be very little rainfall, paddy in the lowland areas will be plentiful, paddy in the upland areas may suffer from some damage.
In this regard, Mr. Somchuan Ratanamungklanon, Deputy Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, will deliver forecast reports predicting the robes of Phraya Raek Na and what the sacred oxen have eaten.
In addition, brahmins will predict seven different types of food and drink that are set up to feed the sacred oxen and the astrologer will offer a prophecy. If the sacred oxen have eaten rice seeds or maize, cereal and fruits will be bountiful. If the sacred oxen have eaten mung beans or sesame seeds, fruits and food will be plentiful. If the sacred oxen have selected water or hay, there will be average rainfall. Cereals, fruits, food and meat will be abundant. If the sacred oxen have selected rice liquor, there will be a convenient transportation, prosperity and flourishing of foreign trade and economy.
Since 1966, the Cabinet of Ministers has endorsed resolution to make the Royal Ploughing Ceremony as the Farmers’ Day with the aim to create awareness among farmers of the importance of agriculture, and provide them with an opportunity to join ceremony in or der to bring auspiciousness to their occupation. It also brings economic benefits to the nation as well. Therefore, the Farmers’ Day has been organized in parallel with the Royal Ploughing Ceremony.
In addition, the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives has selected Outstanding Farmer 2022, Outstanding Farmer's Institute 2022, Outstanding Cooperative 2022 and Agricultural Philosopher of the Kingdom of Thailand 2022. In this regard, Mr. Somchuan Ratanamungklanon, Deputy Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives will introduce each outstanding farmers and agricultural organizations at different branches on this occasion, namely:
Outstanding Farmer for the year 2022 - consists of 16 occupational fields;
1. Rice Paddy Cultivation: Mr. Phat Chaiwong, Chaing Mai province.
2. Gardening: Mr. Veerawat Jeerawong, Chumphon province.
3. Field Crop Cultivation: Mr. Rungreng Rairuksa, Prachuap Khiri Khan province.
4. Integrate Field Crop Cultivation: Ms. Jeerawan Yuenan, Chumphon province.
5. Mulberry and Silk Raising: Mrs. Nikorn Kaewwisai, Udon Thani province.
6. Livestock Raising: Mr. Kriengsak Seriratyuenyong, Yala Province.
7. Aquaculture Raising: Mr. Prawat Piriyasas, Prachinburi province.
8. Aquaculture Raising in Brackish Water: Mr. Utthapong Boonlertfa, Nakhon Pathom province.
9. Ornamental Fish and Marine Plant: Mr. Wanlop Woonsud, Nakhon Pathom province.
10. Wild Forest Cultivation: Mr. Somporn Lojinda, Chiang Rai province.
11. Account Keeping Farming: Mr. Ardul Wichianchai, Pathum Thani province.
12. Agricultural Land Development: Mr. Bunjong Sanyamoon, Maha Sarakham province.
13. Good Agricultural Practices for Plants: Mr. Sanon Phatmuang, Surat Thani province.
14. Organic farming: Ms. Sujaree Thanasirithanakorn, Kalasin province.
15. Farmer Youth Consultant: Ms. Phathumrat Jongkoonkang, Nakhon Ratchasima province.
16. Farmer Youth Member: Ms. Sirimon Panpiriya, Trat province.
Outstanding Farmers’ Institution for the year 2022 - consists of 12 groups;
1. Crop farming group: Kom Rubber Plantation Group, Nakhon Si Thammarat province.
2. Animal farming group: Goat and Sheep Community Enterprise, Phetchabun province.
3. Fisheries farming and aquaculture raising group: Sufficiency Agriculture Fisheries Development Group 49, Samut Sakhon province.
4. Aquaculture processing farmers group: Baan Kham Klang Pickled Fish Community Enterprise, Ubon Ratchathani province.
5. Farmers’ housewife group: Baan Thung Hoong Farmers’ Housewife Group, Phrae province.
6. Farmer youth group: Baan Bu Kwau School Farmer Youth, Nakhon Ratchasima province.
7. Rice seed variety producer group: Takhian Ngam Rice Seed Variety Producer Group, Kamphaeng Phet province.
8. Farmer irrigation institution, water management group, Ban Chamta Rueang Water Pipeline System, Chanthaburi province.
9. Center for the promotion and production of community rice varieties in the category of jasmine rice:
Bua Ngam Sub-district Community Rice Center, Ubon Ratchathani province
10. Center for the promotion and production of community rice varieties, Community Rice Centers: Organic Agriculture Organizations, Sikhio district, Nakhon Ratchasima province
11. Community Enterprises: Community Enterprises for Vegetable, Herbs and Fruit Products Development, Lamphun province.
Outstanding Cooperative for the year 2022 - consists of 4 cooperatives;
1.  Agricultural cooperatives: Kut Khao Pun Agricultural Cooperatives Limited, Ubon Ratchathani province
2.  Dairy cooperatives: Lamphun Dairy Cooperatives Limited, Lamphun province
3.  Savings cooperatives: Chaiyaphum Hospital Savings Cooperatives Limited, Chaiyaphum province
4.  Credit union cooperatives: Loeng Hung Samakkhi Credit Union Co., Ltd., Sakon Nakhon province
Outstanding Agricultural Philosopher of the Kingdom of Thailand for the Year 2022 - consists of 3 Candidates;
1. Mr. Arnek Srikiewsod, the Kingdom Outstanding Agricultural Philosopher for the category of Immense Wisdom and Significant Contribution to Thai Agriculture Sector, Ang Thong province.
2. Mr. Sanguan Mongkhonsripanlert, the Kingdom Outstanding Agricultural Philosopher for the category of Outstanding Sufficiency Economy, Krabi province.
3. Mr. Suphot Singthosri, the Kingdom Outstanding Agricultural Philosopher for the category of Outstanding Agricultural Philosopher, Ratchaburi province.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/54281