รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM ready for 46th ASEAN Summit and related meetings


วันจันทร์ที่ 26 พฤษภาคม 2568
26/05/2568
พิมพ์
PM ready for 46th ASEAN Summit and related meetings
PM ready for 46th ASEAN Summit and related meetings
May 25, 2025, at 2150hrs (Kuala Lumpur local time), Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed that Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra and the delegation, comprising Minister of Commerce Pichai Naripthaphan, Minister of Foreign Affairs Maris Sangiampongsa, Deputy Minister of Finance Julapun Amornvivat, Thai Trade Representative Umesh Pandey, Secretary- General, National Economic and Social Development Council Danucha Pichayanan, and Prime Minister’s Secretary General Prommin Lertsuridej, arrived in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia to attend the 46th ASEAN Summit and related meetings. The Prime Minister was welcomed by H.E. Dr. Zaliha Mustafa, Malaysian Minister in the Prime Minister’s Department, and Dato’ Rozainor bin Ramli, Chief of Ceremony of Prime Minister's Department of Malaysia.
In the morning of May 26, 2025, the Prime Minister will attend the plenary session of the 46th ASEAN Summit and the 46th ASEAN Summit (Retreat), and, later, the luncheon in honor of the leaders of 10 ASEAN member states.
In the afternoon and evening of the same day, she will attend Leaders Interface with the ASEAN Inter-Parliamentary Assembly (AIPA), Leaders Interface with ASEAN Youth, Leaders Interface with ASEAN Business Advisory Council (ASEAN-BAC), Signing Ceremony of the Kuala Lumpur Declaration of the ASEAN Community Vision (ACV) 2045, and the dinner hosted by Prime Minister of Malaysia and spouse.
The 46th ASEAN Summit and related meetings will be held under the theme of “Inclusivity and Sustainability”. The Prime Minister and other ASEAN leaders will adopt the ASEAN Community Vision (ACV) 2045, which will chart ASEAN’s path into the next 20 years, and guide ASEAN in a constructive manner amidst the challenges within and beyond the region, be it, the current situations in Myanmar, South China Sea, and the Middle East, and the US trade tariff policy. Issues that Thailand will put forward are strengthening regional integration to cope with global economic volatility, boosting connectivity in all dimensions, initiating ASEAN tourism cooperation and digital trade logistics cooperation to promote the region’s smart transport systems.
The Prime Minister will also take the occasion to encourage cooperation in combating transboundary crimes, especially narcotics and online scams, which have been impacting quality of life of the Thais and ASEAN people.
ASEAN Community is composed of 10 countries, namely, Thailand, Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam, Myanmar, Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia, Philippines and Brunei.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/96768