รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on April 22, 2025


วันอังคารที่ 29 เมษายน 2568
29/04/2568
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on April 22, 2025
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Application and Issuance of Driving Licenses and Renewal of Driving Licenses (No. ..) B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Application and Issuance of Driving Licenses and Renewal of Driving Licenses (No. ..) B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Transport.
Gist
The Ministerial Regulation on Application and Issuance of Driving Licenses and Renewal of Driving Licenses, B.E. 2563, which is currently in effect, required the applicants to show up in person at offices of Land Transport Department to take physical fitness test at each driver's license renewal, making it impossible to apply for the renewal electronically, and causing inconvenience to the public.
Ministry of Transport (Land Transport Department), therefore, proposed an amendment of the Ministerial Regulation on Application and Issuance of Driving Licenses and Renewal of Driving Licenses, B.E. 2563, according to which physical fitness test will be exempted for driving license renewal applicants who are not older than a specified age or must not possess physical conditions as announced by the Director-General of the Department of Land Transport. Those that do not fall within the said conditions are required to take physical fitness test.
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Application and Issuance of Driving Licenses and Renewal of Driving Licenses (No. ..) B.E. … will take effect 90 days after being registered in the Royal Gazette.
Title: Addition of controlled goods under Price of Goods and Services Act, B.E. 2542
The cabinet approved addition of 2 goods, that is, 1) air purifiers; and (2) electric vacuum cleaners, as controlled products, according to a resolution of the Central Committee on Prices of Goods and Services (CCPG). This is as proposed by Ministry of Commerce.
Gist
With an increasing severity of PM2.5 particulates across the country, there is also an increasing need for air purifiers, and electric vacuum cleaners. The addition of these two products as controlled products has, therefore, been proposed to prevent unfair prescription of prices or unfair trade conditions or practices.
Title: Revocation of Cabinet Resolutions, dated October 9, 1990, and November 12, 1991, on exportation of live snakes and unprocessed snake skins from the Kingdom
The cabinet approved the revocation of Cabinet Resolutions, dated October 9, 1990, and November 12, 1991, on exportation of live snakes and unprocessed snake skins from the Kingdom. This is as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment.
Gist
The revocation follows the current trend in the breeding of exotic and beautiful snakes, which is in demand in foreign markets.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, Ministry of Commerce, and the National Economic and Social Development Council have deliberated and did not object to the revocation of cabinet resolutions, on condition that export of exotic and beautiful snakes complys with relevant laws, and does not affect the environment.
Title: Request for use of watershed area, class 1B, for mining operation of Silasampan, Co. Ltd. In Phatthalung province
The cabinet approved the use of watershed area, class 1B, for mining operation of Silasampan, Co. Ltd. In Phatthalung province, as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
Silasampan, Co. Ltd. has filed an application for a license for mining of industrial limestone in Phanom Wang subdistrict, Khuan Khanun district, Phatthalung province, covering an area of ​​42 rai, 3 ngan, and 41 square wah, which is a class 1B watershed area. Ministry of Industry, therefore, requested from the cabinet for permission for use of the area.
Title: Request for the Government’s FY2025 central fund for emergency and contingency for implementation of water resource management capacity enhancement projects against drought and rainfall deficit
The cabinet approved the Government’s FY2025 central fund for emergency and contingency at 7,404.34 million Baht for the implementation of 2,748 water resource management capacity enhancement projects against drought and rainfall deficit. This is as proposed by Office of National Water Resources.
Gist
As part of the 2025 water resource management plan, 2,748 water resource management capacity enhancement projects against drought and rainfall deficit will be implemented across the nation by 4 ministries:
Agency
No. of Projects
Budget
(million Baht)
1) Ministry of Interior
2,153
3,743.31
2) Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
243
1,223.72
3) Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment
328
2,369.02
4) Ministry of Defense
24
68.29
Total
2,748
7,404.34
Title: Cooperation under Mekong-Lancang Cooperation Special Fund (MLCSF) for 2024
The cabinet approved the MOU on Cooperation under Mekong-Lancang Cooperation Special Fund (MLCSF) for 2024 between Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives and the Chinese Embassy in Thailand. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, the Ministry may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Agriculture and Cooperatives or a representative is authorized as signatory of the MOU. This is as proposed by Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives.
Gist
The MOU on Cooperation under Mekong-Lancang Cooperation Special Fund (MLCSF) for 2024 between Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives and the Chinese Embassy in Thailand prescribes TOR for the implementation of “A Sustainable supply chain for managing agricultural waste in the Mekong region to Manipulate climate change adaption” which will be subsidized under the Mekong-Lancang Cooperation Special Fund (MLCSF) at the amount of USD346,900. The implementation period is for 3 years.
Title: Adoption of Asia and Pacific Ministerial Declaration on Civil Aviation (Delhi)
The cabinet approved the adoption of the Asia and Pacific Ministerial Declaration on Civil Aviation (Delhi), and authorized Ministry of Transport to notify the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) Asia Pacific.
Gist
Asia and Pacific Ministerial Declaration on Civil Aviation (Delhi) demonstrates common intent of member countries in the Asia and Pacific region to strive to promote the implementation of work plans, standards and practices of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO).
Title: COP28 Declaration on Climate and Health
The cabinet approved the adoption of COP28 Declaration on Climate and Health, and assigned Ministry of Public Health to proceed according to the procedure. This is as proposed by Ministry of Public Health.
Gist
The COP28 Declaration on Climate and Health demonstrates intent to promote resilience of healthcare systems to be capable of recovering from climate change, and to prepare vulnerable communities and groups for such changes. Member states are committed to working together to implement the objectives of the Declaration.
Title: Joint Plan of Action for Thailand – Cambodia Strategic Partnership 2025 – 2026
The cabinet approved the Joint Plan of Action for Thailand – Cambodia Strategic Partnership 2025 – 2026, as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, the Ministry may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
Gist
The Joint Plan of Action for Thailand – Cambodia Strategic Partnership 2025 – 2026 is aimed at promoting comprehensive relations and tangible cooperation between the two countries as strategic partners. It covers 7 areas of cooperation, namely, (1) promoting border development; (2) addressing challenging cross-border issues; (3) promoting human resource development; (4) promoting people-to-people relations; (5) stimulating bilateral trade; (6) promoting economic cooperation; and (7) strengthening security and defense partnerships.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/95885