รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Royal Command on Appointment of Ministers


วันเสาร์ที่ 2 กันยายน 2566
02/09/2566
พิมพ์
Royal Command on Appointment of Ministers
Royal Command on Appointment of Ministers
His Majesty Phra Bat Somdet Phra Poramenthra Ramathibodi Sisin Maha Vajiralongkorn Phra Vajira Klao Chao Yu Hua grants a royal command, which is published in the Royal Gazette on September 2, 2023, to endorse the new cabinet.
Royal Command
Appointment of Ministers
---------------------------------------
Phra Bat Somdet Phra Poramenthra Ramathibodi Sisin Maha Vajiralongkorn                        Phra Vajira Klao Chao Yu Hua
Phra Bat Somdet Phra Poramenthra Ramathibodi Sisin Maha Vajiralongkorn Phra Vajira Klao Chao Yu Hua has graciously given a Royal Command for the announcement to be made that: Pursuant to the Royal Command dated 22 August B.E. 2566 (2023) appointing Mr. Srettha Thavisin as Prime Minister, the Prime Minister has humbly selected council of ministers for the interests of state administration.
On the authority of Section 158 of the Constitution of the Kingdom of Thailand, His Majesty therefore graciously endorse appointment of ministers forthwith:
Mr. Phumtham Wechayachai ​​Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Commerce
Mr. Somsak Thepsutin                   ​Deputy Prime Minister
Mr. Parnpree Bahiddha-Nukara         Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs
Mr. Anutin Charnvirakul                   ​Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior
Pol.Gen. Patcharawat Wongsuwon​Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Natural Resources
and Environment
Mr. Pirapan Salirathavibhaga​​Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Energy
Ms. Puangpetch Chunla-ead​​Minister Attached to Prime Minister’s Office
Mr. Sutin Klungsang​​​Minister of Defense
Mr. Srettha Thavisin                  ​Minister of Finance (another position)
Mr. Krisada Chinavicharana​​Deputy Minister of Finance
Mr. Julapun Amornvivat​​Deputy Minister of Finance
Mr. Jakkapong Sangmanee              Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs
Ms. Sudawan Wangsupakitkosol​Minister of Tourism and Sports
Mr. Varawut Silpa-archa​​Minister of Social Development and Human Security
Miss. Supamas Isarabhakdi​​Minister of Higher Education Science Research and
Innovation
Captain Thammanat Prompow          Minister of Agriculture and Cooperatives ​​
Mr. Chaiya Promma​​​Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Cooperatives
Mr. Anucha Nakasai               ​Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Cooperatives
Mr. Suriya Jungrungreangkit​​Minister of Transport
Ms. Manaporn Charoensri​​Deputy Minister of Transport
Mr. Surapong Piyachote​​Deputy Minister of Transport
Mr. Prasert Chantararuangthong​Minister of Digital Economy and Society
Mr. Napintorn Srisanpang​​Deputy Minister of Commerce
Mr. Kriang Kantinan​​​Deputy Minister of Interior
Mr. Songsak Thongsri​​​Deputy Minister of Interior
Mr. Chada Thaiset ​​​Deputy Minister of Interior
Pol.Col. Tawee Sodsong​​Minister of Justice
Mr. Pipat Ratchakitprakarn​​Minister of Labor
Mr. Sermsak Pongpanich​​Minister of Culture
Pol.Gen. Permpoon Chidchob​​Minister of Education
Mr. Surasak Phancharoenworakul​Deputy Minister of Education
Mr. Cholnan Srikaew​​          ​Minister of Public Health
Mr. Santi Promphat ​​​Deputy Minister of Public Health
Miss. Pimphattra Wichaikul               Minister of Industry
Announced on 1 September B.E. 2566, being the 8th year of the present Reign.
Countersigned by
Mr. Srettha Thavisin
Prime Minister

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/71907