รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on November 15, 2022


วันจันทร์ที่ 21 พฤศจิกายน 2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on November 15, 2022
The cabinet met on November 15, 2022. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Study Result on Driving Forward Thailand’s Agro-industry
The cabinet acknowledged the result of a study on Driving Forward Thailand’s Agro-industry conducted by the Senate’s commerce and industry committee. This is as proposed by Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives.
Gist
Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, together with other concerned agencies, has scrutinized the study on Driving Forward Thailand’s Agro-industry conducted by the Senate’s commerce and industry committee, and is of the view that the study result is suitable and relavant as guideline for concerned agencies to integrate in their operation for susatinable driving of agro-industry sector. The Ministry also has additional suggestion on the issues of: 1) the strategic framework and mechanism for agro-industrial development at the national level; 2) promoting and creating driving force cluster for agro-industry; and 3) promoting agencies to support industrial agro-industrial development.
Title: Outcome of 25th Meeting of ASEAN Tourism Ministers and related meetings
The cabinet acknowledged the proposal of Ministry of Tourism and Sports on outcomes of the 25th Meeting of ASEAN Tourism Ministers and related meetings, held onsite and online on January 19, 2022 in Cambodia. Gist is as follows:
Three documents were adopted at the 25th Meeting of ASEAN Tourism Ministers: 1) Phnom Penh Declaration on Transforming ASEAN Tourism; 2) Joint Media Statement of the 25th Meeting of ASEAN Tourism Ministers; and 3) Scope of Duty for the Meeting of ASEAN Tourism Ministers
One document was adopted at the ASEAN Plus Three Tourism Ministers Meeting: 1) Joint Media Statement of the ASEAN Plus Three Tourism Ministers Meeting
Two documents were adopted at the 9th Meeting of ASEAN- Republic of India Tourism Ministers: 1) ASEAN-India Tourism Work Plan 2021-2022; and 2) Joint Media Statement of the ASEAN- Republic of India Tourism Ministers
Three documents were adopted at the 1st Meeting of ASEAN-Russia Tourism Ministers: 1) ASEAN-Russia Federation Tourism Work Plan 2022- 2024; 2) Joint Media Statement of the Meeting of ASEAN-Russia Tourism Ministers; and 3) Scope of Duty for the Meeting of ASEAN-Russia Tourism Ministers
Title: Draft Cooperation Plan between Kingdom of Thailand and People’s Republic of China on Jointly Promoting the Silk Road Economic Belt and the 21st Century Maritime Silk Road
The cabinet approved the proposal made by ministry of foreign affairs as follows:
Approved the draft Cooperation Plan between Kingdom of Thailand and People’s Republic of China on Jointly Promoting the Silk Road Economic Belt and the 21st Century Maritime Silk Road
Authorized Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, or a representative as signatory of the draft Cooperation Plan
Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest and policy, ministry of foreign affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet
Gist
Areas of ooperation under the Cooperation Plan between Kingdom of Thailand and People’s Republic of China on Jointly Promoting the Silk Road Economic Belt and the 21st Century Maritime Silk Road include: 1) Policy Coordination; 2) Facility Connectivity; 3) Unimpeded Trade; 4) Financial Integration; and 5) People-to-people Bond.
Title: request for approval on outcome documents of the 33rd APEC Ministerial Meeting and 29th APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting
The cabinet approved outcome documents of the 33rd APEC Ministerial Meeting and 29th APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest and policy, ministry of foreign affairs and ministry of commerce may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Ministers of Foreign Affairs and Commerce, or their representative are authorized to adopt document no. 1 or no. 2 (in case consensus could not be reached for document no. 1). The Prime Minister or a representative is authorized to adopt document no. 3 or no. 4 (in case consensus could not be reached for document no. 3), and the Bangkok Goals on BCG Economy (document no. 5). This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
Outcome documents of the 33rd APEC Ministerial Meeting and 29th APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting are:
2022 APEC Ministerial Meeting Joint Ministerial Statement
Statement of Chair of 2022 APEC Ministerial Meeting
2022 APEC Economic Leaders' Declaration
Statement of Chair of 2022 APEC Economic Leaders Meeting
Bangkok Goals on BCG Economy

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/61823