รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM chairs 2/2024 permanent-secretary level meeting


วันศุกร์ที่ 26 กรกฎาคม 2567
26/07/2567
พิมพ์
PM chairs 2/2024 permanent-secretary level meeting
PM chairs 2/2024 permanent-secretary level meeting
July 24, 2024, at 1200hrs, at the Ministry of Education, Bangkok, Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin presided over the 2/2024 meeting of permanent secretaries and chiefs of ministry-level agencies and equivalent officials. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
Upon arrival, the Prime Minister took photo with permanent secretaries and chiefs of ministry-level agencies and equivalent officials, and listened to the briefing, before stressing that the meeting today would focus on the issues of education and security, especially the fight against narcotics, online gambling, and call center scam which are major threats to national security.
The Prime Minister mentioned the problem of out-of-school children (OOSC), and expressed full support on the implementation of “Thailand Zero Dropout” policy through identifying youths, aged 3 - 18 years, who are invisible in the national education system or who are dropped out, and bringing them back in the education system.
Although illicit drugs are not known to be widespread in schools, he encouraged concerned agencies and individuals to build children’s awareness and negative perception against illicit drugs. His Majesty the King has expressed great concern over the issue of narcotics, and the Government has been putting effort to implement new measures on anti-narcotics, which include drug addict treatment, building of cooperation network, and prevention of drug smuggling at the border area, among others. Concerned authority are instructed to be prepared and extra careful in tackling with the drug dealers, and to ensure that related equipment and devices are always intact.
With regard to the narcotics reward program, the Prime Minister has given a policy to concerned agencies (i.e., Office of the Narcotics Control Board, the Royal Thai Army, and the Royal Thai Police) to give and divide the reward money according to relevant laws. He strongly suggested that 30% of the reward money be paid when an arrest is made, and the other 70% be paid when the case is over in order to incentivize the officials in performing duty to eradicate illicit drugs. Office of the Narcotics Control Board is also ordered to undertake asset confiscation without the need for criminal charges in a bid to disrupt financial structure of narcotics network while asset inspection can come after.
Security-related problems are also of the Prime Minister’s concern. He called for an integrated effort of the security authorities to tackle these problems in a rigorous manner, particularly the issues of illegal immigrants along the border area. Ministry of Interior is also instructed to expedite legalization of people in the ethnic groups who are eligible in order for them to earn lawful rights, especially in education and public health.
The Prime Minister also emphasized that collaboration with other countries is necessary in addressing the issue of call center gang and online gambling. The Royal Thai Police has received positive feedback from the Cambodian counterpart with regard to the collaboration in suppressing call center gangs along the border area. The Prime Minister also stressed that Thailand would not allow illegal businesses to be conducted in the country, and that concerned authorities would strictly enforce the law against these businesses.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/86325