รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM strengthens Thailand's digital content industry by supporting the Bangkok International Digital Content Festival 2024 (BIDC 2024).


วันศุกร์ที่ 26 กรกฎาคม 2567
26/07/2567
พิมพ์
PM strengthens Thailand's digital content industry by supporting the Bangkok International Digital Content Festival 2024 (BIDC 2024).
PM strengthens Thailand's digital content industry by supporting the Bangkok International Digital Content Festival 2024 (BIDC 2024).
The Government aims to enhance trade opportunities for entrepreneurs and increase the competitiveness of Thai digital content on the global stage, targeting over 450 business matching sessions and generating an estimated revenue of over 800 million baht for the country, positioning Thailand as a regional hub for digital content.
On July 25, 2024, Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed that Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin prioritizes promoting Thailand's digital content industry to align with international markets as a key sector driving economic growth. The Bangkok International Digital Content Festival 2024 (BIDC 2024), from July 24 to August 8, 2024, is expected to create significant networking opportunities for trade and investment in the digital content service sector globally, while expanding the international market for Thai digital content entrepreneurs.
The Government Spokesperson added that BIDC 2024 marks the 11th consecutive year of the event, organized in collaboration with the Department of International Trade Promotion and various public and private sector partners. It aims to broaden trade channels for Thailand's digital content industry, covering production, distribution, sales, and creative digital media services, leveraging Thailand's potential to become a centre for digital content in Southeast Asia.
Activities at the event will include trade matching sessions, business networking, and the annual digital content awards for 2024, such as the BIDC Awards, Rising Star Awards, and Global Achievement Awards, totalling over 29 awards. The festival will feature leading digital content companies from 42 firms, including Warner Bros., Discovery, Imagica Lab, and Avex Asia, from 10 countries worldwide, including Japan, Singapore, China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Malaysia, India, South Korea, France, and the United Arab Emirates. Additionally, 73 Thai digital content companies are expected to participate, aiming for over 450 business matches and a trade value of no less than 800 million baht.
“The Prime Minister appreciates the collaboration from all agencies that drive trade channels for the digital content industry into global market. He believes that BIDC 2024, will serve as a platform to promote Thai digital content services to showcase their potential and gain recognition in the digital content sphere, increasing the trade value of Thai digital content services in the global market and adding value on Thai digital content, propelling Thailand to become a regional hub for digital content” Government Spokesperson

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/86332