รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM proposes 3 key areas to promote collective leadership in ASEAN


วันพุธที่ 9 ตุลาคม 2567
09/10/2567
พิมพ์
​PM proposes 3 key areas to promote collective leadership in ASEAN
​PM proposes 3 key areas to promote collective leadership in ASEAN
October 9, 2024, at 09.30 hrs, at the National Convention Centre (NCC), Vientiane, Lao PDR, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra attended the opening of the 44th and 45th ASEAN summits and related summits, and later at 0915hrs, delivered an intervention at the 44th ASEAN Summit (Plenary) to underscore the importance of collective leadership in addressing people’s problems and promoting their wellbeing. Government Spokesman Jirayu Houngsab disclosed gist of her intervention as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed sincere appreciation to Prime Minister Sonexay Siphandone for the warm hospitality extended to her and the delegation. She also thanked the kind words of welcome from the ASEAN Family, and affirmed that ASEAN would remain a cornerstone of her government’s foreign policy. Thailand is committed to advancing the ASEAN Community.
At this critical juncture, ASEAN faces complex challenges, ranging from geopolitical competition to natural disasters. The devastations from typhoon Yagi, with far-reaching impacts on ASEAN peoples, is one stark reminder. Thus, Thailand prioritises people-centred development and building a more connected and resilient ASEAN Community. The Prime Minister emphasized that collective leadership in ASEAN can make a difference, and proposed 3 key areas where collective effort and action should be strengthened.
First is sustainability. As the ASEAN Coordinator for Sustainable Development, it is important to shape the ASEAN Community Vision 2045 through an ASEAN green agenda. There is a need to consolidate efforts on climate action and carbon neutrality, clean energy transition, green finance and green economy, as well as digital innovations towards a sustainable future. This will help ensure that ASEAN economic growth is not achieved at the expense of the environment. And environmental risks such as severe weather, water-related disaster and sea level rise from climate change, or transboundary haze and PM 2.5 can be diminished.
Second is the security of peoples or human security. In the face of crisis after crisis, ASEAN must continue working together to ensure that its peoples have access to food, energy, and all the basic needs. Smart farming and sustainable agricultural practices should be promoted to lay a strong foundation for greater productivity and long-term food security. ASEAN’s frameworks, such as the ASEAN Power Grid, should also be bolstered to enhance regional energy connectivity and resilience.
Meanwhile, cross-border water management should be promoted. ASEAN should also redouble efforts to combat transnational crimes, especially online scams and drug trafficking through intensifying cooperation in tightening border controls and law enforcement, as well as improving public awareness to prevent and fight criminal syndicates.
Third is deeper regional integration. Thailand supports ASEAN’s efforts in modernizing and upgrading FTAs with external partners, as well as negotiating FTAs with new partners. As the Chair of DEFA Negotiating Committee, Thailand will push for its conclusion by 2025 to build a new growth engine. Digital upskilling for MSMEs should also be enhanced to increase their access to finance, and help them grow in this volatile global economy.
Enhancing connectivity in all aspects is key to increase collective competitiveness. Particular attention should be given to people-to-people connectivity by increasing flights and extending visa-free period among ASEAN Member States to promote intra-ASEAN trade and tourism.
ASEAN cannot take forward these endeavors on its own, and needs to work with external partners. In doing so, ASEAN must reinforce its centrality and unity through acting together on issues of common interest. This will make ASEAN’s engagements with external partners more strategic and relevant.
In striking a strategic balance, ASEAN can and should avoid becoming a proxy for any power or allow this region to become an arena of rivalry. Only through constructive cooperation can ASEAN maintain peace and stability. Towards that end, Thailand will play its part as an active promoter of peace and common prosperity to achieve a conducive environment for development.
Lastly, Thailand looks forward to the ASEAN-ROK and ASEAN-New Zealand Comprehensive Strategic Partnerships. The country also supports Malaysia’s initiative for the ASEAN-GCC Plus China Summit next year.
In closing, the Prime Minister congratulated Lao PDR for successful chairmanship, and affirmed Thailand’s full support and confidence toward Malaysia, the next chair, in taking ASEAN forward.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/88921