รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM emphasizes “ASEAN unity and centrality” at 45th ASEAN summit (Retreat)


วันพุธที่ 9 ตุลาคม 2567
PM emphasizes “ASEAN unity and centrality” at 45th ASEAN summit (Retreat)
PM emphasizes “ASEAN unity and centrality” at 45th ASEAN summit (Retreat)
October 9, 2024, at 1150hrs, at the National Convention Centre (NCC), Vientiane, Lao PDR, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra attended and delivered an intervention at the 45th ASEAN summit (Retreat). Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsab disclosed gist of her intervention as follows:
The Prime Minister stated that she shared the views and concerns that the world is facing more complex challenges and that ASEAN security is increasingly being shaped by external factors. Competition among major powers and rising tensions around the world have led to trust deficits along with weakened multilateralism and regionalism.
Member states must remain steadfast in strengthening the ASEAN Community. They need to maintain and project a strong and united ASEAN. Collective leadership in advancing regional interests will be crucial to reinforce ASEAN centrality and make ASEAN-led frameworks relevant for meaningful engagement with external partners, through fostering inclusive dialogue and cooperation under the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific.
As an active promoter of peace and common prosperity, Thailand will work closely with all ASEAN member states to sustain regional peace and stability and enhance the region’s standing as a responsible global player in the fast-changing geopolitics. While ASEAN does not take sides, member states must take a principled stand on issues affecting the region and people.
In the context of major power rivalry, the South China Sea is deemed as a conflict-prone flashpoint. Thailand urges all parties to exercise self-restraint, avoid provocative actions, and engage with one another in a constructive manner towards peaceful resolution of disputes. Thailand is committed to the early conclusion of an effective and substantive Code of Conduct in the South China Sea in accordance with international law. Pending that, freedom of navigation in, and overflight above, the South China Sea, which is a major trade route vital for economic growth, must be ensured.
Thailand also shares the global concern on the situation in the Middle East including the humanitarian crisis in Gaza. The country supports all efforts towards a ceasefire deal, securing the unconditional release of all civilian nationals, including ASEAN citizens, as well as unrestricted humanitarian access. Thailand remains resolutely in support of the two-State solution.
Myanmar is a high-priority issue for Thailand. As a neighbor with a long common border of 2,400 kilometers, Thailand has been affected by conflicts in Myanmar, ranging from displaced persons, illegal migration, disruption of trade and livelihoods of people, public health concerns, to transnational crimes, especially narcotic drugs and online scams. In this context, the Prime Minister proposed the following 4 points:
First, Thailand will work with all friends in ASEAN and beyond to achieve a peaceful, stable and unified Myanmar a common interest of countries in this region.
Second, Thailand will play a more proactive role to help bring back peace in Myanmar. The country will intensify bilateral engagements with Myanmar, and continue to fully support the ASEAN process. Thailand commends the work of Laos as ASEAN Chair, especially Special Envoy Alounkeo Kittikhoun, and will work closely with Malaysia as the next Chair. At the same time, Thailand is strengthening the role of neighboring countries of Myanmar to complement ASEAN’s effort.
Third, ASEAN should send a unified message to all parties in Myanmar that there is no military solution. It is time to start talking. Thailand is ready to help. Also, it is important to bring parties back to the political process and find a political solution. Opening up more political space and dialogue between parties are vital, as Myanmar moves forward with elections next year. Equally important is a stronger ASEAN cooperation to combat transnational crimes, especially narcotic drugs and online scams. The vicious cycle of conflicts and crimes in Myanmar must be tackled.
Fourth, ASEAN should step up both short-term humanitarian assistance and long-term development of Myanmar, which would be important for future recovery of the country. Recently, Thailand has contributed 290,000 US Dollars to the AHA Centre to expand humanitarian assistance in Myanmar. Thailand is prepared to do more to help the people of Myanmar.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/88938