รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on February 11, 2025


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 27 กุมภาพันธ์ 2568
27/02/2568
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on February 11, 2025
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft ministerial regulation on designation of ​​ Mu Ko Man archipelago, Klaeng District, Rayong Province, as marine and coastal resource protection area, B.E. ....
The cabinet approved in principle the draft ministerial regulation on designation of Mu Ko Man archipelago, Klaeng District, Rayong Province, as marine and coastal resource protection area, B.E. ...., as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment. Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment is to take into account opinions of Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Interior, and Office of the Permanent Secretary to the Prime Minister for further consideration and action.
Gist
The draft ministerial regulation prescribes Mu Ko Man archipelago, Klaeng District, Rayong Province, as marine and coastal resource protection area for the benefit of preserving, conserving and restoring marine and coastal resources to maintain their natural state and ensure complete environment and ecosystem. In the designated area, it is prohibited to do or engage in such activities as littering, dumping wastewater, fishing, constructing, marine mining, anchoring ships in coral reef areas, etc.
Title: Action Plan for Promotion and Development of Civil Society Organizations, Phase 2 (2023 - 2027)
The cabinet approved the Action Plan for Promotion and Development of Civil Society Organizations, Phase 2 (2023 - 2027), and assigned relevant agencies to proceed accordingly. This is as proposed by Civil Society Empowerment and Development Committee.
Gist
Action Plan for Promotion and Development of Civil Society Organizations, Phase 2 (2023 - 2027) is a successive plan after the 1st phase (2021-2022). It is to provide Government, business, and civil society sectors with guidelines for their operations under the key concept of engaging civil society organizations as development partners.
The action plan consists of four plans: (1) Developing policies, laws and measures to strengthen civil society organizations; (2) Increasing resource access capacity of civil society organizations; (3) Building capacity of civil society organizations to be able to work in response to complex social problems; and (4) Developing innovations, mechanisms, database systems, knowledge and public media.
Title: Agreement between the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Government of the Kingdom of Tonga on Exemption of Visa Requirements for Holders of Diplomatic and Official Passports
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Foreign Affairs:
Approved the Agreement between the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Government of the Kingdom of Tonga on Exemption of Visa Requirements for Holders of Diplomatic and Official Passports
Authorized Minister of Foreign Affairs or a representative as signatory of the Agreement. Ministry of Foreign Affairs is to issue the Full Powers to the signatory
Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall proceed according to the Agreement
Should there be an amendment in part that are not gist nor against the principle approved by the Cabinet, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed and inform the Cabinet later of the amendment.
Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Commerce, Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Public Health, National Intelligence Agency, National Security Council, National Economic and Social Development Council, and the Royal Thai Police have deliberated and approved/have no objections on the Agreement.
Title: Memorandum of Understanding between Ministry of Education of the Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Education, Vocational Training and Sports of the Kingdom of Spain on cooperation in education
The cabinet approved the draft Memorandum of Understanding between Ministry of Education of the Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Education, Vocational Training and Sports of the Kingdom of Spain on cooperation in education. Should there be an amendment in part that are not gist, Ministry of Education shall seek suggestions from Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ Department of Treaties and Legal Affairs before proceeding. Minister of Education is authorized as signatory of the Thai side.
Gist
The draft Memorandum of Understanding between Ministry of Education of the Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Education, Vocational Training and Sports of the Kingdom of Spain on cooperation in education promotes educational cooperation through language and cultural instruction, professional development, and academic exchanges, which including exploring the feasibility of implementing projects to promote foreign language instruction in line with government policy. It also aims to promote people-to-people relations between the two countries.
Title: Proceeding in pursuant to Article 22, paragraph 3 (b) of Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants: Notification of Non-Acceptance to Amendment of Annex A (Elimination) to Include Additional listing of Dechlorane Plus and UV-328
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment:
Approved for Thailand, as a party to the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants, to proceed according to Article 22, paragraph 3 (b) of Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants: Notification of Non-Acceptance to Amendment of Annex A (Elimination) to Include Additional listing of Dechlorane Plus and UV-328. This is in order to exempt Thailand from being bound by the amendment of Annex A (Elimination) which include the listing of Dechlorane Plus and UV-328
Assigned Ministry of Foreign Affairs to submit the notification letter to UN, as the depositary, before the adoption of the additional annex
Gist
In May 2023, the Conference of the Parties to the Stockholm Convention added methoxychlor, Dechlorane Plus and UV-328 to Annex A (elimination) of the convention (Decisions SC-11/9, SC-11/10 and SC-11/11).
Dechlorane Plus is a flame retardant used in adhesives, sealants and polymers, as well as an extreme additive in greases. UV-328 is used as a UV absorber to protect surfaces against discoloration and degradation under UV/sunlight. These two substances have been actively used in Thailand, and cessation of the above substances will require a period of transition to alternative substances and management of remaining substances within the country. Therefore, there is a need to notify UN, the depositary, on Thailand’s Non-Acceptance to Amendment of Annex A (Elimination) of the the Stockholm Convention to include the two substances.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/93880