รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on February 25, 2025


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 27 กุมภาพันธ์ 2568
27/02/2568
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on February 25, 2025
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Royal Decree on Re-Election of Member of House of Representatives for Bueng Kan Province, Constituency 2, B.E. ....
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on Re-Election of Member of House of Representatives for Bueng Kan Province, Constituency 2, B.E. .... to fill in vacancy, following disqualification of former MP Suwanna Kumphiro in accordance with Article 101 (6) of the Constitution of Thailand.
Gist
The re-election shall be held within 45 days after the vacancy (by April 3, 2025). It is expected that the reelection will take place on March 30, 2025.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Request for Work Permits, Issuance of Work Permits and Notification of Foreign Workers' Employment (No. ..) B.E. ....
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Request for Work Permits, Issuance of Work Permits and Notification of Foreign Workers' Employment (No. ..) B.E. ...., to amend criteria for obtaining work permits for aliens to facilitate and reduce unnecessary procedures and expenses.
Gist
According to the current Ministerial Regulation (B.E. 2563), aliens are required to pick up work permits in person at the Department of Employment once it is approved, which causes inconvenience and increase travel burden. The Ministerial Regulation on Request for Work Permits, Issuance of Work Permits and Notification of Foreign Workers' Employment (No. ..) B.E. .... prescribes
revocation of in-person pick-up of work permits by the aliens. The Department of Employment will specify methods for the receipt of work permits, such as allowing authorization of others for picking up on behalf of the aliens, or delivering the permits via mail or online. This is in order to enhance flexibility and convenience.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for hydraulic cement, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for hydraulic cement, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for hydraulic cement, B.E. …, is an amendment to the Thai Industrial Standard for hydraulic cement under TIS 2594-2556, to keep the standards up-to-date and in line with current practices and usage, as well as to comply with the government policy on greenhouse gas emission reduction.
The draft Ministerial Regulation shall take effect 60 days after being announced in the Royal Gazette.
Title: Request for use of watershed area, class 1A, in Dong Panna and Dong Phra Chao National Forest Reserves for construction of Tham Puang Temple, Pathum Wapi Subdistrict, Song Dao District, Sakon Nakhon Province
The cabinet approved the use of watershed area, class 1A, in Dong Panna and Dong Phra Chao National Forest Reserves for construction of Tham Puang Temple, Pathum Wapi Subdistrict, Song Dao District, Sakon Nakhon Province, as proposed by National Office of Buddhism.
Gist
Tham Puang Buddhist Monastery has been located in Pathum Wapi Subdistrict, Song Dao District, Sakon Nakhon Province, before the cabinet’s resolution, dated February 21, 1995, to designate this area as watershed area class 1A. Therefore, National Office of Buddhism needs the cabinet’s approval in order to implement the upgrade of the monastery to Tham Puang Temple.
Title: Memorandum of Understanding on the Establishment of Bilateral Consultative Mechanism between Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of African Integration and Ivorians Abroad of the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Foreign Affairs:
Approved the draft Memorandum of Understanding on the Establishment of Bilateral Consultative Mechanism between Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of African Integration and Ivorians Abroad of the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
Authorized Minister of Foreign Affairs or a representative as signatory of the MoU.
Gist
The draft MoU prescribes establishment of a mechanism for bilateral consultations between the Parties with the aim of strengthening bilateral relations, developing further cooperation, facilitating exchanges of visits, and conducting consultations in all areas of mutual benefit, especially in politics, economy, investment, finance, industry, education, society, health, science, education, and technology. Bilateral consultation mechanism is co-chaired by Director-General or Deputy Director-General responsible for bilateral relations of the Parties, and is attended by representatives from each party's embassy.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/93884