รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on February 18, 2025


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 27 กุมภาพันธ์ 2568
27/02/2568
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on February 18, 2025
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Songkhla province (Hat Yai district’s Patong subdistrict), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Songkhla province (Hat Yai district’s Patong subdistrict), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives. The Ministry shall take comments of Ministry of Transport, Official of Council of State, and Office of National Economic and Social Development Council into consideration.
Gist
The Royal Decree prescribes areas in Songkhla province (Hat Yai district’s Patong subdistrict) to be expropriated for construction of Khlong Tong drainage canal for irrigation, consumption, and flood prevention purposes. Land survey and appropriation shall commence within 160 days after the Royal Decree is in effect.
Title: Provincial project proposals for restoration and repair of infrastructure, utilities and public services damaged by floods in three Southern border provinces
The cabinet approved 22 provincial project proposals for restoration and repair of infrastructure, utilities and public services damaged by floods in three Southern border provinces (Yala, Pattani, Narathiwat), for the total budget framework of 304,795,400 Baht.
Gist
Following flash floods in Yala, Narathiwat and Pattani provinces during November - December 2024, which have caused great damage to people's lives and properties, 22 restoration and repair projects were proposed to restore infrastructure, utilities and public services damaged by floods.
Title: Outcomes of public-private sector meeting on development of Southern Gulf of Thailand Provincial Cluster (Songkhla, Surat Thani, Chumphon, Nakhon Si Thammarat and Phatthalung)
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Office of National Economic and Social Development Council:
Acknowledged outcomes of public-private sector meeting on development of Southern Gulf of Thailand Provincial Cluster (Songkhla, Surat Thani, Chumphon, Nakhon Si Thammarat and Phatthalung) on ​​Thursday, January 30, 2025, and Monday, February 17, 2025.
Approved in principle 23 projects under the Southern Gulf of Thailand Provincial Cluster with a budget framework of 300,000,000 Baht.
Approved in principle 12 private sector’s project proposals under the Southern Gulf of Thailand Provincial Cluster with a budget framework of 300,000,000 Baht.
Assigned Office of National Economic and Social Development Council to liaise with relevant agencies to review the remaining 21 projects proposals submitted by the private sector

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/93860