รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Govt agencies ready for “equal marriage” registration


วันอังคารที่ 21 มกราคม 2568
21/01/2568
พิมพ์
Govt agencies ready for “equal marriage” registration
Govt agencies ready for “equal marriage” registration
January 20, 2025, Deputy Government Spokesperson Kharom Phonpornklang disclosed that Ministry of Interior’s Department of Provincial Administration is now ready for marriage registration under the Marriage Equality Law, which will be kicked off on Thursday, January 23. “Equal marriage” registration will be carried out on the basis of equity and equality under the theme: “Embracing Equality: Love Wins in 878 Districts”.
Department of Provincial Administration, as the Central Registrar, has rehearsed with 878 district and registration offices nationwide, as well as 50 district offices in Bangkok and 94 Thai embassies and consulates abroad, to prepare for the registration in 4 aspects.
In terms of regulations, Ministerial Regulation on Family Registration (No. 4) B.E. 2568 has been in effect to support coexistence between family members of different genders, allowing same-sex couples to be engaged and married and to be aware of their rights, duties, and equal family status.
With regard to the related system, marriage and divorce registration system has been modified and tested. Production of marriage certificates (Kor Ror 3) and divorce certificates (Kor Ror 7) is also increased to accommodate the increasing services.
Concerned personnel and registration officers have also been trained to enhance knowledge on all relevant laws and adjust their mindset in providing services to the public, particularly universal services based on the principles of equality and equity, taking into account standard etiquette and human rights principles.
Kick-off activities have been organized, and creative activities will be held simultaneously at all 878 district offices nationwide on January 23, 2025, the first day the Marriage Equality Act takes effect, under the concept: "Department of Provincial Administration is happy to be the registrar for all lovers."
The Deputy Government Spokesperson reiterated that the Government, through the Department of Provincial Administration, is ready to register marriage for gender-diverse couples to promote equality, equity, and non-discrimination, and to enhance Thailand’s image internationally as a country that respects human rights and gender diversity. The Government would, therefore, like to invite gender-diverse couples to register their marriage at district offices across the nation. For more information, please contact Department of Provincial Administration’s Registration Administration Office Hotline.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/92606