รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​The cabinet met on December 11, 2024. 


วันจันทร์ที่ 23 ธันวาคม 2567
​The cabinet met on December 11, 2024.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Four Draft Ministerial Regulations under the Film and Video Act, B.E. 2551
The Cabinet approved in principle four draft ministerial regulations under the Film and Video Act, B.E. 2551, namely, (1) Draft Ministerial Regulation on Application and Licensing of Cinema Business Operation, B.E. ....; (2) Draft Ministerial Regulation on Application and Licensing of Film and Video Rental, Exchange, or Distribution Businesses, B.E. ....; (3) Draft Ministerial Regulation on Licensing and Operation of Video Shops (Games/Karaoke), B.E. ....; and (4) Draft Ministerial Regulation on Fees for Film and Video Business Operation (No. ..), B.E. .... This is as proposed by Ministry of Culture.
Gist
The four draft ministerial regulations under the Film and Video Act, B.E. 2551 are aimed to streamline procedure, and revise conditions for the application and licensing of cinema business operation; film and video rental, exchange, or distribution businesses; and operation of video shops (games/karaoke) to be in line with the current context and to better facilitate the people.
Title: Draft Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code on Tax Exemption (No. ..) B.E. .... (Tax Measures to Support Domestic Tourism)
The Cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code on Tax Exemption (No. ..) B.E. .... (Tax Measures to Support Domestic Tourism) which has been reviewed by the Office of Council of State. This is as proposed by Ministry of Finance.
Gist
The draft Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code on Tax Exemption (No. ..) B.E. .... (Tax Measures to Support Domestic Tourism) is aimed to provide tax benefits to individuals and companies or juristic partnerships for tourism and seminar organization in secondary provinces and other provinces during the low season from May 1, 2024 to November 30, 2024 (a total of 7 months).
People who are eligible for the tax benefits under this measure can submit electronic tax invoice and electronic receipt (e-Tax Invoice & e-Receipt) issued by business operators for tax deduction in the online tax filing system for the 2024 tax year.
The draft Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code on Tax Exemption (No. ..) B.E. .... (Tax Measures to Support Domestic Tourism) prescribes exemption of corporate income tax for companies or juristic partnerships for income paid for organizing employee trainings or seminars domestically, and exemption of personal income tax for service fees or accommodation fees in secondary provinces or in other areas as announced by Director-General of the Revenue Department. Service fees can be deducted as actually paid, but not exceeding 15,000 baht in total.
Title: Request for allocation of FY2025 central budget for emergency and contingency for electricity subsidy measure for September 2024
The Cabinet approved the request for allocation of FY2025 central budget for emergency and contingency for electricity subsidy measure for September 2024 to Metropolitan Electricity Authority (MEA) and the Provincial Electricity Authority (PEA) for the total amount of 472.67 million baht for electricity subsidy in September 2024, with an aim to reduce the public’s burden of electricity costs. This is as proposed by the Ministry of Interior.
Gist
The measure is aimed to reduce the public’s burden of electricity costs for residential electricity users consuming no more than 300 units of electricity per month (people from the vulnerability groups). Detail of the subsidy during September 2024 is as follows:
Electricity discount for vulnerable groups (19.05 satang per unit) for September 2024
MEA
PEA
Total
Million cases
Million baht
Million cases
Million baht
Million cases
Million baht
2.31
74.32
16.55
398.35
18.86
472.27
Title: Accession to the United Nations Convention on the Use of Electronic Communications in International Contracts (New York, 2005)
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Digital Economy and Society:
1. Approved accession to the United Nations Convention on the Use of Electronic Communications in International Contracts (ECC) (New York, 2005)
2. Approved the draft declaration of Thailand's accession to the ECC Convention
3. Ministry of Foreign Affairs is to prepare the Instrument of Accession to be submitted to the Secretary-General of the United Nations
Gist
The United Nations Convention on the Use of Electronic Communications in International Contracts (ECC Convention) is aimed to facilitate the use of electronic communications in international trade and ensure that contracts concluded are as valid and enforceable as traditional paper contracts. The ECC Convention also prescribes practical methods for electronic communication in international contracts. Acceding to the ECC Convention will benefit Thailand in upgrading electronic communications in international trade to meet international standards.
Title: Request for approval and authorization to sign the Memorandum of Understanding on Establishment of a Joint Trade Committee (JTC) between the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt; and the Joint Action Plan on Economic Cooperation between the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt
The cabinet approved the Memorandum of Understanding on Establishment of a Joint Trade Committee (JTC) between the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt; and the Joint Action Plan on Economic Cooperation between the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt. Should there be a need to revise the documents in parts that are not gist nor against Thailand's interests, Ministry of Commerce may proceed without having to submit it to the Cabinet for consideration. Minister of Commerce or an assigned representative is authorized as signatory of the draft Memorandum of Understanding and the draft Action Plan. This is as proposed by Ministry of Commerce.
Gist
The Memorandum of Understanding on Establishment of a Joint Trade Committee (JTC) between the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt; and the Joint Action Plan on Economic Cooperation between the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt is aimed to promote 5-year trade and investment cooperation between Thailand and Egypt in 5 areas, namely, trade and investment, agriculture, integration and industrial zones, tourism, and MSME.
Ministry of Tourism and Sports, Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, Ministry of Energy and the Board of Investment have scrutinized and have no objection to the draft documents.
Title: Draft Agreement between Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and Government of the Republic of Korea on Cooperation in Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy
The Cabinet approved the draft Agreement between Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and Government of the Republic of Korea on Cooperation in Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy. Should there be a need to revise the document in parts that are not gist nor against Thailand's interests, Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation may proceed without having to resubmit it to the Cabinet for consideration. Minister of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation or a representative is authorized as signatory of the draft agreement. Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) is to issue the Full Powers to the signatory, as proposed by the Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation.
Gist
The draft Agreement between Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and Government of the Republic of Korea on Cooperation in Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy is developed on the principle of promoting cooperation in peaceful uses of nuclear energy. It defines scope of cooperation in 9 areas, and will take effect for 10 years with 5-year automatic extension.
Ministry of Defense, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, Ministry of Energy, Ministry of Commerce, Ministry of Public Health, National Security Council, and National Economic and Social Development Council have scrutinized and have no objection to the draft document.
Title: Draft Joint Statement of 7th Thailand-Malaysia Annual Consultation
The cabinet approved the draft Joint Statement of 7th Thailand-Malaysia Annual Consultation. Should there be a need to revise the document in parts that are not gist nor against Thailand's interests, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit it to the Cabinet for consideration. The Prime Minister is authorized to adopt the draft Joint Statement at the 7th Thailand-Malaysia Annual Consultation held on December 16, 2024. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
The 7th Thailand-Malaysia Annual Consultation is aimed to follow up on the progress of cooperation between Thailand and Malaysia in important dimensions, and express the shared intention of the two governments to drive cooperation between each other at all levels, both bilaterally and multilaterally. This is in order to tighten relations between Thailand and Malaysia, which will lead to prosperity and utmost benefits for the people of both sides. Areas of cooperation and discussion include: (1) Political and security; (2) Economic cooperation; (3) Social and cultural cooperation; and (4) Regional and multilateral cooperation, especially within the ASEAN and the Indonesia-Malaysia-Thailand Growth Triangle (IMT-GT) frameworks.
Title: Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the Government of Malaysia and the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand on Culture, Arts and Cultural Heritage Cooperation
The cabinet approved the drafting of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the Government of Malaysia and the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand on Culture, Arts and Cultural Heritage Cooperation. Should there be a need to revise the document in parts that are not gist nor against Thailand's interests, Ministry of Culture may proceed without having to resubmit it to the Cabinet for consideration. Minister of Culture or a representative is authorized as signatory of the MoU. This is as proposed by Ministry of Culture.
Gist
Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the Government of Malaysia and the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand on Culture, Arts and Cultural Heritage Cooperation is aimed to promote bilateral relations between the two countries through cooperation in culture, arts and cultural heritage in various fields, which include promoting closer cooperation between art, heritage and cultural institutions of the two countries, upgrading literature, performing arts, visual arts and related cultural activities, exchanging materials, cooperating in research and development through the exchange of experiences, publications, research studies, among others.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/91654