รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM pleased with improvement of Mahasarakham’s Huai Nam Khem Floodgate to alleviate flood and drought


วันจันทร์ที่ 23 ธันวาคม 2567
PM pleased with improvement of Mahasarakham’s Huai Nam Khem Floodgate to alleviate flood and drought
PM pleased with improvement of Mahasarakham’s Huai Nam Khem Floodgate to alleviate flood and drought
December 20, 2024, at 1100hrs, at Huai Nam Khem Floodgate (D5), Yang Tha Chaeng Subdistrict, Kosum Phisai District, Maha Sarakham Province, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra followed up and handed down the policies on water resources management and flood solutions in Chi River Basin. Accompanying the Prime Minister was the Minister Attached to the Prime Minister’s Office Jiraporn Sindhuprai and the Deputy Minister of Interior Theerarat Samrejvanich. Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed the gist as follows:
The Prime Minister listened to a report on water management in the Chi-Mun River Basin, and drainage and improvement of Huai Nam Khem Floodgate from the Deputy Director-General of the Royal Irrigation Department, according to which the improvement is more than 50% in progress and is expected to complete by 2025. The Prime Minister instructed the Department to ensure that the completion was on schedule and added that she would later visit and inspect the site upon the improvement completion. She, then, listened to a briefing on off-season rice farming and sowed the Kor Khor 89 rice variety in the off-season rice field.
According to the Government Spokesperson, many local people were waiting to welcome the Prime Minister along both sides of the road at Huai Nam Khem Floodgate to give her moral support and encourage the Prime Minister to keep fighting. The Prime Minister, with her smiling face, greeted them in Northeastern dialect, and thanked for their warm welcome and support. She also assured local residents to always seek help with their MPs should any problem arises. Construction of this Huai Nam Khem Floodgate was ordered by her father, former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra, 20 years ago, and incidentally, the budget for improvement of the floodgate has been improved during her premiership. The Prime Minister expressed pleasure to learn that floodgate improvement would be completed soon, which means flood and drought that have been plaguing the local area would finally be solved.
The Prime Minister, then, inquired the villagers about the government's subsidy policies, i.e., the subsidy of 1,000 baht per rai for farmers, and the 10,000-baht handout scheme to welfare card holders, disabled persons, and registered elderly people. She also wished everyone prosperity and healthiness because being healthy is the foundation of everything.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/91622