รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on July 11, 2023.


วันอาทิตย์ที่ 16 กรกฎาคม 2566
16/07/2566
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on July 11, 2023.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree prescribing natural resource conservation and preservation project within wildlife sanctuaries or non-hunting areas, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Royal Decree prescribing natural resource conservation and preservation project within wildlife sanctuaries or non-hunting areas, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment. The Ministry is instructed to take opinions of Ministry of Finance, the Budget Bureau, Office of Council of State, and Office of National Economic and Social Development Council into consideration.
Gist
The draft Royal Decree prescribing natural resource conservation and preservation project within wildlife sanctuaries or non-hunting areas, B.E. … stipulates permission to 20-year productive land tenure and dwelling in 7 wildlife sanctuaries and non-hunting areas:
1) Tham Pha Tha Phon Non-Hunting Area in Phitsanulok province
2) Pa Sak Chonlasit Dam Non-hunting Area in Lopburi province
3) Thap Phaya Lo Non-Hunting Area in Chiang Rai province
4) Tham Pathun Non-Hunting Area in UthaiThani province
5) Phu Pha Daeng Wildlife Sanctuary in Phetchabun province
6) Huai Kha Khaeng Wildlife Sanctuary in Uthai Thani province
7) Lam Nam Nan (Right Bank) Wildlife Sanctuary in Uttaradit province
Productive land tenure and dwelling will be effective for 20 years after the date the Royal Decree takes effect. The aim is to assist the people with productive land tenure in wildlife sanctuaries and non-hunting areas before they are listed as protected forest area. The people who are eligible for productive land tenure and dwelling in the aforementioned wildlife sanctuaries and non-hunting areas must be Thai nationals with no prohibited qualifications as stipulated by the law. Participating in the project will not result in any ownership or possessory right of such land.
Title: Draft Royal Decree prescribing natural resource conservation and preservation project within national parks, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Royal Decree prescribing natural resource conservation and preservation project within national parks, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment. The Ministry is instructed to take opinions of Ministry of Finance, the Budget Bureau, Office of Council of State, and Office of National Economic and Social Development Council into consideration.
Gist
The draft Royal Decree prescribing natural resource conservation and preservation project within national parks, B.E. … stipulates permission to 20-year productive land tenure and dwelling in 7 national parks:
1) Khao Khitchakut National Park in Chanthaburi province
2) Khao Sip Ha Chan National Park in Chanthaburi province
3) Chaloem Rattanakosin National Park in Kanchanaburi province
4) Ton Sak Yai National Park in Uttaradit province
5) Tat Mok National Park in Phetchabunprovince
6) Nam Nao National Park in Phetchabunprovince
7) Lan Sang National Park in Tak province
Productive land tenure and dwelling will be effective for 20 years after the date the Royal Decree takes effect. The aim is to assist the people with productive land tenure in nationaparks. The people who are eligible for productive land tenure and dwelling in the aforementioned national parks must be Thai nationals with no prohibited qualifications as stipulated by the law. Participating in the project will not result in any ownership or possessory right of such land.
Title: Report on public relations performances of spokespersons of ministries and deputy prime ministers, and public relations performances of Department of Public Relations, no. 2/2023 for the period of January-March 2023
The cabinet acknowledged the report on public relations performances of spokespersons of ministries and deputy prime ministers, and public relations performances of Department of Public Relations (PRD), no. 2/2023 for the period of January-March 2023.
Public Relations Agendas during January-March 2023
1) PM2.5 particulates: Publicizing via PRD’s television media, radio media and online media. Online media have been published a total of 195,465 times, accessed 42,295,156 times, clicking like 14,051,605 times, sharing 2,996,165 times, and commenting 735,297 times.
2) Thailand’s tourism stimulus measures: Publicizing via PRD’s television media, radio media and online media. Online media have been published a total of 32,712 times, accessed 10,724,845 times, clicking like1,005,094 times, sharing 138,974 times, and commenting 15,720 times.
Public Relations Agendas in April 2023  General Election, and assistance measures to farmers
Title: Outcome documents of the 56th ASEAN Foreign Ministers’ Meeting and Related Meetings (56th AMM PMC)
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Foreign Affairs:
1) Approved 15 outcome documents (12 are to be adopted, and the other 3 will be signed) of the 56th ASEAN Foreign Ministers’ Meeting and Related Meetings (56th AMM PMC), which will be hosted by the Republic of Indonesia during July 11-14, 2023. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs or concerned agencies may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
2) Authorized Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs or a representative to adopt 12 documents
3) Authorized Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs or a representative to sign 3 documents
Gist
The 15 outcome documents of the 56th ASEAN Foreign Ministers’ Meeting and Related Meetings (56th AMM PMC) are:
1. The 56th AMM Joint Communiqué: The document will demonstrate joint commitment of ASEAN member states, under the theme: "ASEAN Matters: Epicentrum of Growth," in strengthening ASEAN's cooperation in such areas as the response against geopolitical dynamics, protection of human rights, promotion of sustainable food security, among others; and in enhancing cooperation under the ASEAN’s Three-Pillar framework.
2. Joint Statement on the Reflection of the 20 Years of the People’s Republic of China’s Accession to the Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in Southeast Asia (TAC)
3. – 6. Draft ASEAN – Aotearoa New Zealand Joint Statement regarding Cooperation on ASEAN Perspectives on the Indo-Pacific; Draft Joint Statement of the Foreign Ministers of ASEAN and Russia on the 5th Anniversary of ASEAN-Russia Strategic Partnership; Draft Appendix to the Action Plan on the Implementation of ASEAN-India Partnership for Peace, Progress and Mutual Prosperity (2021-2025); and Draft Appendix to the ASEAN-USA Plan of Action 2021-2025 on ASEAN-U.S. Comprehensive Strategic Partnership.
7. – 12. Draft guidelines for accelerating the development of codes of conduct in the South China Sea; Draft Action Plan for the East Asia Summit (EAS); Draft Statement of ASEAN Regional Forum (ARF) on Political and Security Cooperation in the Asia-Pacific Region to Commemorate the 30th Anniversary of the ARF; Draft Statement of the 30th ASEAN Regional Forum (ARF) on Political and Security Cooperation in the Asia-Pacific Region to Strengthen New Maritime Security Cooperation; Draft Statement of the ASEAN Regional Forum (ARF) on Political and Security Cooperation in the Asia-Pacific Region to Reduce Nuclear Risk; Draft Plan of the ASEAN Regional Forum (ARF) on Political and Security Cooperation in the Asia-Pacific Region to Counter Terrorism and Transnational Crime 2023-2025.
13. – 15. Draft documents to be signed are: the Instruments of Accession to the Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in Southeast Asia (TAC)between ASEAN and United Mexican States; ASEAN and Republic of Panama; and ASEAN and Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Title: Signing of Letter of application for cooperating status to become Cooperating Non - Contracting Party (CNCP) with Commission for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources (CCAMLR)
The cabinet approved the signing of Letter of application for cooperating status to become Cooperating Non - Contracting Party (CNCP) with Commission for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources (CCAMLR). Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist, Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Director-General of the Department of Fishery is authorized as signatory of the Letter of application for cooperating status. This is as proposed by Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives.
Gist
Thailand is invited to become Cooperating Non - Contracting Party (CNCP) of the Commission for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources (CCAMLR). This is with an aim to promote the country’s compliance on tootfishconservation measure (Conservation Measure 10 – 05).
Title: 12th Mekong - Ganga Cooperation Ministerial Meeting
The cabinet approved the draft Joint Ministerial Statement of the 12th Mekong - Ganga Cooperation Ministerial Meeting which will be adopted at the 12th Mekong - Ganga Cooperation Ministerial Meeting, to be held as a hybrid meeting in Bangkok, Thailand on July 16, 2023.
Gist
The Mekong - Ganga Cooperation (MGC) framework, established in 2000, is an initiative by six countries – India and five ASEAN countries, namely, Cambodia, Lao PDR, Myanmar, Thailand, and Vietnam. The aim is to promote economic cooperation and connectivity between India and the Mekong subregional countries in 10 areas of cooperation: 1) tourism, 2) culture, 3) education, 4) health and traditional medicine, 5) agriculture and allied sectors, 6) transport & communication, 7) small and medium enterprises, 8) water resources management, 9) science and technology, and 10) skill development and capacity building.
The documents to be adopted at the 12th Mekong - Ganga Cooperation Ministerial Meeting include the draft Joint Ministerial Statement of the 12th Mekong - Ganga Cooperation Ministerial Meeting and 2 Annexes, that is, the Concept Note on lead country mechanism for each area of cooperation under the MGC framework, and the Concept Note on the establishment of MGC Business Council.
The draft Joint Ministerial Statement of the 12th Mekong - Ganga Cooperation Ministerial Meeting demonstrates joint commitment of member states in promoting socio-economic development and enhancing cooperation in the followings areas: 1) partnership for development, 2) trade and investment, 3) connectivity, 4) education, 5) public health, and 6) tourism and culture
Concept Note on lead country mechanism for each area of cooperation under the MGC framework is aimed to highlight lead country’s role in each area of cooperation. Thailand volunteers to be the lead country in the areas of tourism, health and traditional medicine, and science and technology.
The Concept Note on the establishment of MGC Business Council is aimed to enhance business interaction and promote closer partnership between member states. MGC Business Council will comprise 60 members (10 from each member state), and will focus on the following areas of cooperation: 1) trade and industrial promotion; 2) business cooperation; 3) technology transfer and development; and 4) researches and advising.
Title: Request for approval to review composition of the United Nations Coordinating Committee, other international organizations, and foreign organizations
The cabinet approved the proposal of Ministry of Foreign Affairs to review the cabinet resolution dated October 7, 2019 on committees appointed by cabinet resolutions. The request is to add a representative of Office of National Cyber Security Agency to the committee for UN coordination, from July 11, 2023 onward.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/70376