รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on January 17, 2023.


วันจันทร์ที่ 23 มกราคม 2566
23/01/2566
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on January 17, 2023.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Yala province (Muang district’s Lam Phaya subdistrict), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Yala province (Muang district’s Lam Phaya subdistrict), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives. Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives shall take comments of Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, Office of National Economic and Social Development Council, and Official of Council of State into consideration.
Gist
The Royal Decree prescribes areas in Yala province (Muang district’s Lam Phaya subdistrict) to be expropriated for irrigational purpose with the construction of earth dam, headwork structure, and appurtenant structures for Lam Phaya Reservoir under the Royal Initiative. Land survey and appropriation shall commence within 60 days after the Royal Decree is in effect.
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Phuket province (Kathu district’s Patong and Kathu subdistricts), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Phuket province (Kathu district’s Patong and Kathu subdistricts), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Transport. Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives shall take comments of Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, Office of National Economic and Social Development Council, and Official of Council of State into consideration.
Gist
The Royal Decree prescribes areas in Phuket province (Kathu district’s Patong and Kathu subdistricts) to be expropriated for the construction of Kathu-Patong expressway, rest area, and other related constructions. Land survey and appropriation shall commence within 180 days after the Royal Decree is in effect.
Title: Construction of “Nam Ki” reservoir in Nan
The cabinet approved for Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, through the Royal Irrigation Department, to proceed with the construction of “Nam Ki” reservoir in Nan province for the budget framework of 6.2 billion Baht. The construction period is planned for 7 years (FY2024-2030). The aim is to contain water during the dry season for agricultural and consumption purposes, to alleviate flood situation in the rainy season, and become source of fish and a tourist attraction.
Gist
“Nam Ki” reservoir is situated in the area of Nam Yao and Nam Suad National Reserved Forests in Moo 2 Wang Pha village, Pha Thong subdistrict, Tha Wang Pha district, Nan province, for the total area of 1,733 rai 84 square wah. Committee on the national reserved forest has made approval for the Royal Irrigation Department to utilize the area, and EIA report has already been submitted. “Nam Ki” reservoir is an 81 meters tall and 845 meters long embankment dam with the capacity of 52.31 million cubic meters.
Construction of the “Nam Ki” reservoir will benefit 6,305 households, and generate new irrigational area of 35,558 rai covering Nan’s 8 subdistricts, that is, Pha Thong, Pha Tor, Pa Kha, Saen Thong, Sri Phum, Rim, Tanchum, and Tha Wang Pha.
Power station and pump turbine will also be built to accommodate hydropower generation. In light of this, the cabinet ordered Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives to work together with Ministry of Energy, EGAT, and other concerned agencies to consider the feasibility in optimizing the project’s hydropower or solar power utilization.
Title: Controlled goods under the Price of Goods and Services Act, B.E. 2542
The cabinet approved 5 controlled goods for 2023, which are hygienic mask, polypropylene (spunbond) for manufacturing of hygienic mask, alcohol-based products for hand hygiene, waste and recycled paper, and chicken meat. This is in accordance with the resolution of the Central Committee on Prices of Goods and Services, in its 1/2023 meeting on January 11, 2023, chaired by Minister of Commerce.
Gist
Due to the ongoing spread of COVID-19 pandemic, the Central Committee on Prices of Goods and Services (CCP) has made a resolution to categorize hygienic mask, polypropylene (spunbond) for manufacturing of hygienic mask, and alcohol-based products for hand hygiene as controlled goods to ensure product efficiency in protecting and preventing the COVID-19 disease. Waste and recycled paper is prescribed as controlled goods to enable monitoring of movements in its prices and quantities, whereas chicken meat is major protein source and needs to be ensured of quantity sufficiency and fair and affordable prices.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/64042