รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Deputy Govt Spokesperson (Tipanan Sirichana) highlights infrastructure development as PM’s notable accomplishment


วันจันทร์ที่ 23 มกราคม 2566
​Deputy Govt Spokesperson (Tipanan Sirichana) highlights infrastructure development as PM’s notable accomplishment
​Deputy Govt Spokesperson (Tipanan Sirichana) highlights infrastructure development as PM’s notable accomplishment
January 23, 2023, Deputy Government Spokesperson Tipanan Sirichana disclosed that the Government, under the leadership of Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha, has placed great importance on infrastructure development investment to elevate quality of life of the Thai people and promote economic advancement.
On March 29, 2016, the cabinet approved for the Mass Rapid Transit Authority of Thailand (MRTA) to implement the Pink Line development project under a public-private partnership (PPP) net cost concession, where the Government’s investment covers land acquisition, while the private concessionaire’s investment encompasses construction of infrastructure, the supply and installation of equipment (systems and rolling stock) and the operation and maintenance of the line. The estimated budget is 53,490.00 million Baht.
The Pink Line, especially Khae Rai – Min Buri section, is part of the Mass Rapid Transit Master Plan in Bangkok Metropolitan Region (M-MAP) which accommodates commuting of people from the northern areas of Bangkok and Nonthaburi. It is an elevated straddle monorail line which runs for 34.5 kilometers to link Nonthaburi province with Min Buri district. There are 30 stations, that is, Nonthaburi Civic Center; Khae Rai; Sanambin Nam; Samakkhi; Royal Irrigation Department; Yeak Pak Kret; Pak Kret Bypass; Chaeng Wattana-Pak Kret; Si Rat; Mueang Thong Thani; Chaeng Watthana 14; Government Complex; National Telecom; Lak Si; Rajabhat Phranakhon; Wat Phra Sri Mahathat; Ram Inthra; Lat Pla Khao; Ram Inthra Kor Mor; Maiyalap; Vatcharaphol; Ram Inthra Kor Mor 6; Khu Bon; Ram Inthra Kor Mor 9; Outer Ring Road - Ram Inthra; Nopparat; Bang Chan; Setthabutbamphen; Min Buri Market; and Min Buri.
The Pink Line also connects with 6 mass transit lines: 1) Purple Line (Bang Sue – Bang Yai section) at Nonthaburi Civic Center station; 2) Brown Line at Nonthaburi Civic Center station; 3) SRT Dark Red Line (Bang Sue – Rangsit) at Lak Si station; 4) Green Line (Mo Chit – Saphan Mai – Khu Kot section) at Wat Phra Sri Mahathat station; 5) Grey Line at Vatcharaphol station; and 6) Orange Line (Thailand Cultural Center – Min Buri section at Min Buri station. The Impact Link will also be constructed as an extension of the Pink Line with 3 additional stations, namely, Mueang Thong Thani; Impact Muang Thong Thani; and Lake Muang Thong Thani.
As for the construction progress of the Pink Line (Khae Rai – Min Buri section) as of December 2022, civil works is 94.43% complete, M&E works 94.49%, and overall progress is at 94.48%. The section is expected to open for service in 2023. On the other hand, civil works of the Impact Link extension is 13.45% complete, M&E works 4.59%, while the overall progress is at 10.48%. Construction of the Impact Link is expected to complete in 2025.
According to the Deputy Government Spokesperson, infrastructure development, although considered the Prime Minister’s notable accomplishment, is a long-term endeavor. The Prime Minister has expedited and followed up on the progress of these projects on a regular basis. He also thanked all concerned sectors for pushing forward infrastructure development projects, and the public for their cooperation and understanding. Once complete, these projects would help alleviate traffic congestion and pollution problem, facilitate people’s traveling, and spread prosperity to all the areas along the routes.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/64075