รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Govt to promote tourism soft power through 5Fs


วันจันทร์ที่ 23 มกราคม 2566
23/01/2566
พิมพ์
​Govt to promote tourism soft power through 5Fs
​Govt to promote tourism soft power through 5Fs
January 23, 2023, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha instructed all concerned agencies to expedite promoting Thailand’s soft power through the implementation of “5Fs” which aims to showcase five major Thai cultures, namely, food, film, fashion, fighting, and festival, to international eyes.
Tourism Authority of Thailand (TAT), as leading tourism agency, responded to the Prime Minister’s policy to promote the country’s 5Fs in a tangible manner. With the target to reach 25 million tourists - visit by the end of this year, TAT has planned a number of events and festivals to attract both domestic and foreign tourists, some of which are as follows:
Food: The year 2023 will be designated as “Year of Thai Gastronomy”. Walking streets will be promoted and “Bangkok International Food Festival” will be organized.
Film: TAT will launch “Film City Tour Package” which enables tourists to visit locations of popular films and drama series
Fighting: Muay Thai will be underlined. “Amazing Muay Thai Festival 2023” will be held on February 6, 2023 at Rajabhakti Park, Hua Hin, Prachuab Kirikhan province. The event features “Wai Kru” ceremony of Muay Thai, and, with the expected 3,500 participants, will be listed in the Guinness World Records
Festival: “Visit Thailand Festival Limited Edition 2023” will be organized around mid-2023, which will showcase local traditions and culture, as well as local wisdoms, to the tourists. The event features 1-month lighting festival at the China Town during Chinese New Year, and Songkran celebration across the country, among others.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Prime Minister emphasizes promotion of tourism through Thai identities, way of life, local wisdoms, arts and culture, which have great potential to be taken forward for future tourism activities. Aside from the beauty of tourist attractions, the 5Fs approach will reveal to the international tourists spectacular Thai culture and colorful festivities.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/64060