รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with Vietnamese Chairman of the National Assembly


วันจันทร์ที่ 11 ธันวาคม 2566
11/12/2566
พิมพ์
PM meets with Vietnamese Chairman of the National Assembly
PM meets with Vietnamese Chairman of the National Assembly
December 8, 2023, at 15.30 hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Vương Đình Huệ, Chairman of the National Assembly of Socialist Republic of Vietnam, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin on occasion of his official visit to Thailand as guest of the Thai Parliament. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed Chairman of the National Assembly of Vietnam. This visit of his is extremely important to Thailand-Vietnam relations, especially when this year marks the 10th anniversary of the two countries’ strategic partnership. The Prime Minister affirmed Thailand’s commitment to continue to reinforce closer relations and cooperation, and agreed with Vietnam on the upgrade of relations to Comprehensive Strategic Partnership during his official visit to the country early next year, on which concerned agencies of both the countries will work in detail.
The Vietnamese Chairman of the National Assembly thanked the Prime Minister, the Thai Government and Parliament for the warm welcome, and expressed confidence that under the Prime Minister’s leadership, Thailand would achieve its goals according to the National Strategy, and assume the more important role at the global stage. General Secretary Vietnam Communist Party, Vietnamese President and Prime Minister have also conveyed their regards to the Prime Minister, and extended invitation for the Prime Minister to pay an official visit to Vietnam to cochair the Thailand-Vietnam Joint Trade Committee (JTC) at an appropriate opportunity.
Both the Prime Minister and the Vietnamese Chairman of the National Assembly also discussed issues of mutual interest:
Both parties were pleased with close cooperation and regular exchange of visits between national assembly of the two countries. An MOU will be signed during this visit of the Vietnamese Chairman of the National Assembly to promote further cooperation. The Prime Minister endorsed activities and closer cooperation between national assembly of the two countries.
On economic cooperation, trade and investment, both parties agreed that Thailand and Vietnam are each other’s important economic partners, and there are potentials to advance trade and investment cooperation. The two countries came to terms on reducing trade barriers and facilitating trade between each other in a bid to reach the target of USD25,000 in trade value by 2025. The Prime Minister was also pleased that the Vietnamese Chairman of the National Assembly tagged along with him a group of Vietnamese businessmen during his official visit to Thailand, and affirmed Thailand’s commitment to fully support Vietnamese investors in Thailand.
The Prime Minister also agreed to promote economic cooperation through the “Three Connects” proposed by the Vietnamese Chairman of the National Assembly, that is, 1) supply chain connectivity, especially in complementary and mutually beneficial industries; 2) grassroots economic connectivity to enhance direct business linkages and exchanges among local entrepreneurs; and 3) connectivity of sustainable growth strategies between Thailand’s bio-circular-green (BCG) economy model and Vietnam’s green growth strategy.
On people-to-people relations, the Prime Minister was pleased with tourism activities between the two countries. This year over 900,000 Vietnamese tourists have visited Thailand, more than double from last year. The Thai Government stands ready to promote tourism between Thailand and Vietnam. The Vietnamese Chairman of the National Assembly thanked the Prime Minister for supporting and taking good care of the Vietnamese in Thailand. Vietnam is also ready to promote closer people-to-people relations, and called on Thailand to consider increasing the number of direct flights, and promoting connectivity between the two countries.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/75937