รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Thai and Malaysian PMs cochair 7th Thailand-Malaysia Annual Consultation


วันจันทร์ที่ 16 ธันวาคม 2567
16/12/2567
พิมพ์
​Thai and Malaysian PMs cochair 7th Thailand-Malaysia Annual Consultation
​Thai and Malaysian PMs cochair 7th Thailand-Malaysia Annual Consultation
December 16, 2024, at 1100hrs (local time), at the Dewan Putra Room, Perdana Putra (Prime Minister’s Office), Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra and Dato’ Seri Anwar Ibrahim, Prime Minister of Malaysia, witnessed the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between Malaysian Rubber Board (MRB) and the Rubber Authority of Thailand on Rubber Industry Development and Economic Cooperation; and the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the Government of Malaysia and the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand on Culture, Arts and Cultural Heritage Cooperation.
The two Prime Ministers, later, cochaired the 7th Annual Consultation, and held a joint press conference. Deputy Government spokesperson Sasikarn Wattanachan disclosed gist as follows:
The Prime Minister reiterated Thailand’s commitment to maintain relations dynamism with Malaysia for “Common Peace and Prosperity”, and the country’s support over Malaysia’s ASEAN Chairmanship in 2025. The Prime Ministers of Malaysia and Thailand also discussed the following key issues:
The two Prime Ministers came to terms to promote economic cooperation, especially in trade and investment, border connectivity, digital economy, and tourism. They also agreed to push ahead cooperation in rubber and Halal industries for mutual interest. Thailand and Malaysia aim to achieve the trade target of 30 billion US dollars by 2027.
On border cooperation, the two parties discussed the ongoing flood disaster in the border area, and agreed for concerned agencies of the two countries to seek and implement long-term solutions to tackle the problem. The Thai and Malaysian Prime Ministers were also pleased with the progress of border infrastructure development, and affirmed commitment of the two countries to work closely together in upgrading rail and road connectivity in a bid to facilitate border trade and induce people-to-people relations.
On this occasion, the two leaders witnessed the signing of two important Memorandums of Understanding on rubber and cultural cooperation which would help strengthen economic and people-to-people ties between the two countries.
Toward the end of the joint press conference, the Prime Minister thanked the Malaysian Prime Minister for the friendship, and expressed confidence in the potential for cooperation between the two countries to advance into the future. She also emphasized the importance of regular meetings and discussions, and invited the Malaysian Prime Minister to visit Thailand in the future occasion.
The Prime Minister, then, attended an official luncheon hosted in her honor at the Protocol Room, Perdana Putra, before returning to Thailand in the evening of the same day.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/91406