รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand adopts 2021 Political Declaration on HIV and AIDS


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 10 มิถุนายน 2564
Thailand adopts 2021 Political Declaration on HIV and AIDS
Thailand adopts 2021 Political Declaration on HIV and AIDS
June 9, 2021, at 04.30 hrs (15.30 hrs of June 8, 2021, New York local time), at the Headquarters of the United Nations (UN), USA, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha delivered a keynote address via a teleconference at the UN High-Level Meeting (HLM) on HIV/AIDS. Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist as follows:
The Prime Minister believed that the meeting would be a good opportunity to engage all sectors in reviewing and taking forward the 2019 Political Declaration on HIV and AIDS, as well as adopting the new Political Declaration and seeking new approaches to cope with the challenge and achieve UN SDG on ending HIV by 2030. At present, the spread of COVID-19 has greatly impacted economies and people across the globe, and has set back gains in the HIV response.  People living with HIV and AIDS have become more vulnerable, leading to an increasing disparity situation. The Prime Minister has, therefore, proposed 3 points of view to expedite related undertakings at both national and international levels:
Rapidly scale‑up innovation and expand coverage. Deliver services based on new technology and innovation, and offer user-friendly preventive package available to all in need, especially young people and target groups. Universal health coverage is very important to providing inclusive services.
Promote strong political will in taking a whole-of‑society approach to ending disparity, stigma, and discrimination. This is very important to reduce obstacles in getting access to preventive services and treatment.
Promote community engagement as key to advancing an effective response. All sectors should be engaged in developing policies and providing services at all levels.
In closing, the Prime Minister affirmed Thailand’s adoption of the 2021 Political Declaration on HIV and AIDS, and added that the country would chair the UNAIDS Programme Coordinating Board in 2021.
The UN High Level Meeting on HIV/AIDS is held once every 5 years with an aim to exchange views and review progress of the goals set out in the Political Declaration on HIV and AIDS. The meeting this year has been held during June 8-10, 2021 at the UN Headquarters in New York, USA.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/42591