รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM delivers intervention on “Partners for Co-creation of Economy and Society of the Future”


วันอาทิตย์ที่ 17 ธันวาคม 2566
PM delivers intervention on “Partners for Co-creation of Economy and Society of the Future”
PM delivers intervention on “Partners for Co-creation of Economy and Society of the Future”
December 17, 2023, at 12.50 hrs (Tokyo, Japan local time) at Hotel Okura Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin delivered an intervention at the ASEAN-Japan Commemorative Summit for the 50th Year of ASEAN-Japan Friendship and Cooperation on “Partners for Co-creation of Economy and Society of the Future”. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
In opening, the Prime Minister emphasized that immense potential lies in the power of co-creation. It can create shared wealth and forge constructive cooperation between competitors. Japan is currently the world’s third largest economy and ASEAN is projected to be the fourth largest economy by 2030. There is high potential for ASEAN and Japan to co-create new opportunities for future generations. The Prime Minister highlighted three following areas:
First, seamless connectivity is the key to unlock our potential and promote shared prosperity. Thailand supports the ASEAN-Japan Comprehensive Connectivity Initiative to strengthen physical, digital and knowledge connectivity. Japan’s almost three trillion yens investment in quality infrastructure in ASEAN is a testament to Japan’s commitment. And Thailand encourages even more investment in the future.
Priority is also to strengthen supply chain resilience and promote more cost-effective transportation and logistics. Thailand’s Landbridge Project is the country’s vision to enhance regional connectivity. Thailand welcomes prospective investors to be a part of this project.
Second, there is a need to advance green economy and accelerate energy transition. Both ASEAN and Japan could be benefited from exchange of expertise, technology, and best practices. This transition may incur a cost, but would also open up to new economic opportunities. ASEAN invites more investment in the development of an EV ecosystem in the region, especially from Japan, our long-standing partner in the automotive industry.
Thailand also encourages more investment in renewable energy and sustainable fuel, including hydrogen and ammonia, and is actively promoting green and sustainable finance through taxonomy and issuing sustainability-linked bonds.
Third, digital transformation is the real game changer in our economic recovery and sustained growth. To create a digital ecosystem enabling economic growth and integration, ASEAN is currently working on the ASEAN Digital Economy Framework Agreement or DEFA, the world’s first regional digital economy agreement. Through DEFA, ASEAN is expected to double the value of the region’s digital economy to 2 trillion USD by 2030.
Thailand welcomes Japan’s cooperation on e-commerce, cross-border data flows, data protection, and AI governance to help accelerate digital transformation, and strongly believes that these are new growth mechanisms for creating prosperous society into the future.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/76244