รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand supports ASEAN – Japan partnership for peace and stability


วันอาทิตย์ที่ 17 ธันวาคม 2566
17/12/2566
พิมพ์
Thailand supports ASEAN – Japan partnership for peace and stability
Thailand supports ASEAN – Japan partnership for peace and stability
December 17, 2023, at 1020hrs (Tokyo, Japan local time) at Hotel Okura Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin delivered an intervention during the plenary session of the ASEAN-Japan Commemorative Summit for the 50th Year of ASEAN-Japan Friendship and Cooperation under themes: “Review of ASEAN-Japan relations” and “Partners for Peace and Stability & Regional and International Issues”. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed sincere appreciation to Prime Minister Kishida for the very warm welcome and hospitality. As the Country Coordinator, Thailand is pleased to be part of this historic event to celebrate the Golden Jubilee of ASEAN-Japan Friendship and Cooperation and reflect on the long-standing partnership. The newly established Comprehensive Strategic Partnership is built upon remarkable achievements over the past 50 years. Japan has been a trusted partner contributing to regional peace and stability as well as robust economic growth.
As ASEAN and Japan are now facing multiple global crisis, and peace is fragile. There is a need to carefully navigate through geo-political, geo-economic and geo-technological uncertainties. The Prime Minister also emphasized that the Thai government is rebuilding democracy and economy, but also determined to play a more active role in regional and international affairs. ASEAN and Japan should work together towards a shared vision of free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific, building upon ASEAN-centered regional architecture.
The Prime Minister highlighted three priority areas of future cooperation for mutual benefits:
First is advancing regional integration. ASEAN and Japan need to fully utilize the ASEAN - Japan Comprehensive Economic Partnership (AJCEP) and RCEP which will link us with the potential market of one-third of the global trade. Cooperation under various sub-regional frameworks such as ACMECS and the Mekong-Japan Cooperation should also be further strengthened to help enhance regional connectivity, narrow the development gaps and build regional capacity for a more inclusive growth. Thailand is developing a Landbridge as the attempt to promote the seamless connectivity of the future an alternative route connecting the Indian and Pacific Oceans, the East and the West, and is keen to explore cooperation with all interested partners in this mega project to ensure a more inclusive growth.
Second is sustainable development and green growth. Thailand welcomes the Asia Zero Emission Community to accelerate energy transition and the Strategic Program for ASEAN Climate and Environment to address climate change. Japan’s leading role and initiatives are indeed pivotal to ASEAN’s green transition. The country aspires to become a leading producer of clean energy and a hub for electric vehicles, and the work on sustainability-linked bonds is also well underway.
Third, is health security. Thailand appreciates Japan’s contribution of 50 million USD to the ASEAN Centre for Public Health Emergencies and Emerging Diseases (ACPHEED) to enhance regional public health resilience. The Prime Minister appreciated the forefront of promoting Universal Health Coverage at the global level between Thailand and Japan and invited all to intensify cooperation to achieve more equitable and sustainable Universal Health Coverage to strengthen the region’s healthcare system.
With increasing uncertainties in the evolving strategic landscape, it is imperative to intensify ASEAN-Japan cooperation to ensure peace and stability in the region and beyond.
On Myanmar, the escalation of conflict has taken a heavy toll on the people and the economy. Thailand, as a neighboring country has been actively engaging with Myanmar to indicate the readiness to assist, which has been pursued within the context of ASEAN’s Five-Points Consensus.
Thailand have reached an agreement with Myanmar to discuss immediately on the humanitarian assistance along the border, to address the needs of the civilian population. This positive step and the humanitarian effort will provide a platform for a broader dialogue among stakeholders in Myanmar, as well as with ASEAN. Thailand look forward to the support of our ASEAN colleagues and Japan.
On the situation in the Middle East, which seems to be on the verge of an even wider conflict, and the ongoing war in Ukraine need the action to prevent further escalation, address the root causes, and secure lasting peace for all. Prime Minister was sure that with the commitment between ASEAN and Japan to working together and fostering an even closer golden friendship, with trust as the golden key, common challenges can be addressed and more golden opportunities will be unlocked in the relations. As the Japanese proverb says, ‘walking with a friend in the dark is better than walking alone in the light’.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/76235