รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand – Bhutan commit to deepen cooperation in tourism, education, and renewable energy


วันพุธที่ 26 มิถุนายน 2567
26/06/2567
พิมพ์
Thailand – Bhutan commit to deepen cooperation in tourism, education, and renewable energy
Thailand – Bhutan commit to deepen cooperation in tourism, education, and renewable energy
June 26, 2024, at 1200hrs, at the Inner Santi Maitri Building, Government House, Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin and Prime Minister Dasho Tshering Tobgay of the Kingdom of Bhutan witnessed the signing ceremony of the following 2 MOUs.
1. Memorandum of Understanding for Academic Cooperation and Exchange of Faculty Members between Department of Medical Services, Minister of Public Health, Thailand and Khesar Gyalpo University of Medical Sciences of Bhutan
2. Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in the Field of Tourism
The two Prime Ministers, then, held a joint press conference. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of the joint press conference as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed deep honor to extend a warm welcome to the Bhutanese Prime Minister on his official visit to Thailand, which coincides with the 35th anniversary of Thailand - Bhutan diplomatic relations. Thailand and Bhutan enjoy close relations since 1989, rooted in the deep respect for the Royal Families, goodwill, and a shared vision for sustainable development. This visit reaffirms commitment of the two countries to further strengthen cooperation, and to elevate relations to new heights. A fruitful discussion was made between the two Prime Ministers, focusing on collaborations across several sectors:
On trade, Prime Ministers of Thailand and Bhutan agreed to foster closer bilateral trade relations by speeding up FTA negotiation, and increasing trade volume to the targeted goal of 120 million USD as soon as possible which will benefit both Thai and Bhutanese businesses.
The Thai Prime Minister was enthusiastic to learn about Bhutan’s Gelephu Mindfulness City (GMC). Thailand is keen to explore investment opportunities in this project, which promises to be a vibrant economic hub. This holistic vision of GMC resonates with Thailand’s shared values of technology-driven and sustainable future. The two key memorandum of understanding signed today will also help boost tourism sectors of the two countries, and promote academic exchange and cooperation in medical education.
Thailand and Bhutan are also committed to leveraging connectivity, and will work together to enhance these connections to facilitate the movement of goods and peoples. As Thailand is Bhutan’s development partner, the country will extend support in knowledge sharing in areas such as healthcare, agriculture, and technology. At the same time, Thailand looks forward to learning from Bhutan’s approaches to sustainable development, and Gross National Happiness, which resembles the country’s Sufficiency Economy Philosophy.
Tourism cooperation The two Kingdoms are blessed with rich cultural heritage and diverse natural beauty, and look forward to promoting the “Two Kingdoms, One Destination” initiative, which will boost the tourism industry in both countries. In addition, to further strengthen people-to-people ties, both the Prime Ministers looked to the possibility of establishing a “Friends of Thailand-Bhutan Group” to deepen the bonds between peoples of the two countries.
On education and technical cooperation, Thailand and Bhutan are committed to facilitating student and academic exchanges, which will enhance mutual understanding and create lasting friendships between younger generations.
Renewable energy is another key area where the two countries can work together. By sharing expertise and best practices, Thailand and Bhutan can advance their efforts to achieve energy security such as in hydropower, which both countries have expertise.
In the context of regional cooperation, Thailand and Bhutan realize the importance of BIMSTEC for the region, especially on trade and connectivity. The Prime Minister extended his invitation to Prime Minister Dasho Tshering Tobgay to be back to Thailand for the BIMSTEC Summit in September this year.
Lastly, on behalf of the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand, the Prime Minister reiterated Thailand’s firm commitment to deepening cooperation with Bhutan across all sectors and in all dimensions.
In this regard, Bhutan's PM has accepted the invitation to join the BIMSTEC Meeting on September 2024 in Thailand and has invited Thai PM to visit Bhutan on his first convenience.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/84995