รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM to take field visit to Nan province on Dec 23


วันจันทร์ที่ 25 ธันวาคม 2566
25/12/2566
พิมพ์
PM to take field visit to Nan province on Dec 23
PM to take field visit to Nan province on Dec 23
December 22, 2023, Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed that Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin is scheduled to pay a visit to Nan province on December 23, 2023 to follow up on the Government’s effort to address informal debt in the province. Accompanying the Prime Minister are Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Commerce Phumtham Wechayachai, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Anutin Charnvirakul, Minister Attached to Prime Minister’s Office Puangpetch Chunla-ead          , Minister of Defense Sutin Klungsang, Minister of Digital Economy and Society Prasert Chantararuangthong, Deputy Minister of Finance Julapun Amornvivat, Deputy Minister of Public Health Santi Promphat, Assistant Commissioner of the Royal Thai Police Pol.Lt.Gen. Akkhradej Phimolsri, and Prime Minister’s Deputy Secretary General for Political Affairs Suksit Srichomkwan.
The Prime Minister’s schedule is as follows:
On 1100hrs, the Prime Minister will leave the Royal Thai Air Forces Airport Wing 6 for Nan Nakhon Airport in Nan province. At approx. 1400hrs, at Nan Provincial Hall, he will meet with relevant agencies and local administrations to follow up on informal debt settlement in the province, and join an informal debt settlement session between debtors and concerned agencies. The Prime Minister is scheduled to return to Bangkok at 1615hrs.
According to the Government Spokesperson, this trip of the Prime Minister affirms the Government’s commitment to tackle informal debt that has impacted everyone in Thai economic system, especially the grassroots people. The Prime Minister expects that the Government’s effort to address informal debt would bring about people’s hope and integrity, as well as their quality of life. He also hopes that the nation’s economy, from the household level to the macro level, would be strengthened and advanced.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/76573