รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on December 6, 2022


วันอังคารที่ 13 ธันวาคม 2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on December 6, 2022
The cabinet met on December 6, 2022. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Chonburi province (Panat Nikhom district’s Rai Lakthong, Ban Chang, Na Wanghin, Narerk, Mon Nang subdistricts; and Koh Chan district’s Tha Bunmi subdistrict), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Chonburi province (Panat Nikhom district’s Rai Lakthong, Ban Chang, Na Wanghin, Narerk, Mon Nang subdistricts; and Koh Chan district’s Tha Bunmi subdistrict), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives. Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives shall take comments of Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, and Official of Council of State into consideration.
Gist
The Royal Decree prescribes areas in Chonburi province (Panat Nikhom district’s Rai Lakthong, Ban Chang, Na Wanghin, Narerk, Mon Nang subdistricts; and Koh Chan district’s Tha Bunmi subdistrict) to be expropriated for construction of canal and drainage canal together with related constructions under the Khlong Luang Rachalothorn Reservoir project under the royal initiative. Land survey and appropriation shall commence within 60 days after the Royal Decree is in effect.
Title: Draft Royal Decree on Ministry of Labor’s Department of Skill Development, B.E. …
The cabinet acknowledged the draft Royal Decree on Ministry of Labor’s Department of Skill Development, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Labor.
The draft Royal Decree on Ministry of Labor’s Department of Skill Development, B.E. … prescribes reorganization of divisions under the Ministry of Labor’s Department of Skill Development to be in line with updated missions of respective divisions. The change is made for Office of Trainer and Training Technology, and Office of Skill Standard Development and Testing to become Division of Trainer and Training Technology, and DIvision of Skill Standard Development and Testing respectively. Additional 20 Skill Development Institutes have also been established.
Title: The Fifteenth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to Convention on Biological Diversity: COP15 Part 2 and related meetings
The cabinet approved Thailand’s negotiation framework at the Fifteenth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to Convention on Biological Diversity: COP15 Part 2 and related meetings. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, head of the Thai delegation may exercise judgment and proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. The cabinet also acknowledged component of the Thai delegation at COP15 Part 2, which will be held in Montreal, Canada during December 7-19, 2022. This is as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment.
Gist
Thailand’s negotiation framework for COP15 Part 2 will be in accordance with Biodiversity Treaty and the Cartahena Protocol, and in line with the nation’s plans and policies on biodiversity. Secretary-General of Office of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy and Plan will head the Thai delegation at COP15 Part 2 and related meetings.
Title: 25th Greater Mekong Subregion economic cooperation program (GMS) Ministers’ Meeting
The cabinet approved the following proposals made by Office of National Economic and Social Development Council:
Approved the documents to be adopted at the 25th Greater Mekong Subregion economic cooperation program (GMS) Ministers’ Meeting, which are:
Draft Joint Statement of the 25th Greater Mekong Subregion economic cooperation program (GMS) Ministers’ Meeting
GMS Gender Equality Strategy
Outcome Evaluation Framework for GMS Strategy (2030)
GMS Digital Economic Cooperation Initiative
New Regional Investment Framework (2025)
Authorized Minister of Finance or a representative as head of the Thai delegation and GMS Minister at the Greater Mekong Subregion economic cooperation program (GMS) Ministers’ Meeting to be held on December 8, 2022 in Luang Prabang, Lao PDR.
Authorized Minister of Finance or a representative to adopt the documents in 1. Together with GMS Ministers of the Mekong countries without signing

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/62577