รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Phase 4 of undergraduate scholarship program for students from Southernmost provinces approved by cabinet


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 9 มีนาคม 2566
09/03/2566
พิมพ์
​Phase 4 of undergraduate scholarship program for students from Southernmost provinces approved by cabinet
​Phase 4 of undergraduate scholarship program for students from Southernmost provinces approved by cabinet
March 8, 2023, Deputy Government Spokesperson Ratchada Thanadirek disclosed that the cabinet, in its meeting on March 7, has made approval to the 4th-phase undergraduate scholarship program for students from the Southernmost provinces (academic years 2023-2027) for the total budget framework of 419.5 million Baht. This is to ensure continuity of education opportunity provision to youths in the 5 Southernmost provinces, namely, Pattani, Yala, Narathiwat, Satun, and Songkhla (4 districts: Chana, Thepha, Na Thawee, and Saba Yoi) for them to pursue undergraduate study in the required fields (in accordance with local needs), and to use acquired knowledge for the development of their own localities.
The 4th-phase undergraduate scholarship program for students from the Southernmost provinces is aimed at: 1) minimizing educational disparity in the 5 Southernmost provinces; 2) providing financial support for undergraduate study in the fields that are relevant with local needs; 3) promoting volunteer spirits and public consciousness among scholarship recipients and encouraging them to do better for their own education institute, locality, and the nation.
The program will be implemented for the academic years 2023-2027. Target groups are youths who have resided in the 5 Southernmost provinces for no less than 3 years, and obtained high-school (or equivalent) degree from a local school in the area. Scholarships will be given in 2 categories: 1) students who did not succeed in the entrance examination will be helped with the placement in an education institute (in addition to the scholarship); and 2) students who succeeded in the entrance examination to study in one of the required fields will be provided with cost of living subsidy (in addition to the scholarship). The program will offer 500 scholarships in total (250 each for the above categories of students) at 40,000 Baht/academic year throughout the study period.
The undergraduate scholarship program for students from the Southernmost provinces has been implemented since 2007, with a total of 5,795 recipients from the 5 Southernmost provinces as of now. Based on the program achievement assessment, 70.3% of the 1st batch of scholarship recipients are being employed, while 1.9% are pursuing higher education, and 71.9% of the 2nd batch of scholarship recipients are being employed, while 6.5% are pursuing higher education. The 3rd phase of the program is now in the assessment process.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/65896