รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM: Govt to announce drug prevention and control as national agenda


วันจันทร์ที่ 18 กันยายน 2566
18/09/2566
พิมพ์
​PM: Govt to announce drug prevention and control as national agenda
​PM: Govt to announce drug prevention and control as national agenda
September 17, 2023, at 13.30 hrs, at Bang Pu Industrial Estate Office, Samut Prakarn province, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin chaired an executive meeting on illicit drug prevention and suppression, and witnessed destruction of narcotic drugs confiscated by Office of the Narcotics Control Board (ONCB). Participating in the meeting were Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Anutin Charnvirakul, Minister of Justice Pol.Col. Tawee Sodsong, Minister of Public Health Cholnan Srikaew, and heads of concerned government agencies. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister listened to the briefing from ONCB on current drug situation, and narcotics control/suppression guideline and framework under the national policy and plan on narcotics prevention and suppression (2023 – 2027). Illicit drugs have been one of the country’s major problem the Government intends to make a national agenda for serious suppression and eradication. The Government’s policies would range from upstream prevention to turning drug users to patients, finding them proper jobs, destroying confiscated drugs, and forfeiting assets.
The Prime Minister underscored the Government’s commitment to tackle illicit drugs. Performance indicators will not be limited to the decrease in numbers, but also better public sentiment. Related laws would be strictly enforced, and drug users would be convinced to seek treatment and rehabilitation, as people who are seeking drug dependence treatment should not be punished and incarcerated for using drugs or being dependent on drugs. At the same time, asset forfeiture must be imposed on drug dealers. Law enforcement officials and provincial governors are also urged to beef up drug control operation along the border area. The Prime Minister emphasized the importance of integrated narcotics control operation among all concerned agencies to demonstrate the Government’s serious commitment in fighting against narcotic problem. Provincial narcotics management centers must be established to oversee and closely monitor narcotics situation in each province, and report directly to the central office.
Later at 14.30 hrs, the Prime Minister traveled to Akkhie Prakarn Plc to witness destruction of seized narcotic drugs. He also wanted to see faster destruction of seized drugs, and emphasized the importance of bringing in family to take part in solving narcotics problem.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/72302