รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with UN Secretary General’s Special Envoy for Road Safety


วันอังคารที่ 5 พฤศจิกายน 2567
05/11/2567
พิมพ์
PM meets with UN Secretary General’s Special Envoy for Road Safety
PM meets with UN Secretary General’s Special Envoy for Road Safety
November 4, 2024, at 1000hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra met with Mr. Jean Todt, UN Secretary General’s Special Envoy for Road Safety, and the delegation on occasion of the latter’s official visit to Thailand. Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister thanked UN for its continued support, and affirmed tight-knit relations and cooperation between Thailand and UN in promoting safe society. The UN Secretary General’s Special Envoy for Road Safety expressed pleasure for a chance to exchange views on road safety in various aspects, both at the national, regional, and global levels. The meeting would also further tighten relations between both parties.
The Prime Minister and UN Secretary General’s Special Envoy for Road Safety came to terms on the importance of road safety, especially promotion of integrated effort between pubic and private agencies, as well as international organizations, in building public awareness to ensure road safety in the country. Thailand stands ready to work together with UN to create road accident-free society.
The UN Secretary General’s Special Envoy for Road Safety extended an invitation for the Prime Minister to take part in “UN Global Campaign for Road safety”, together with world’s renown individuals, to create inclusively and sustainably safe roads around the world and promote road safety measures, i.e., seat belt fastening, safe driving, helmets wearing, no texting while driving, and no drunk driving, among others.
The Prime Minister thanked the UN Secretary General’s Special Envoy for Road Safety for presenting helmets sponsored by the UN Global Campaign for Road safety. These helmets are a prototype for producing safety helmets that costs less than $20, or about 600 baht, and is produced according to UN standards.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/89882