รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM to attend 8th GMS Summit of Leaders and 10th ACMECS Summit


วันอังคารที่ 5 พฤศจิกายน 2567
05/11/2567
พิมพ์
PM to attend 8th GMS Summit of Leaders and 10th ACMECS Summit
PM to attend 8th GMS Summit of Leaders and 10th ACMECS Summit
November 5, 2024, Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed that Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra is scheduled to attend the 8th Greater Mekong Subregion Economic Cooperation Program (GMS) Summit and the 10th Ayeyawady-Chao Phraya-Mekong Economic Cooperation Strategy (ACMECS) Summit during November 6-7, 2024, in Kunming, Yunnan, China PRC.
The People’s Republic of China will host the 8th Greater Mekong Subregion Economic Cooperation Program (GMS) Summit under the theme “Toward a Better Community Through Innovation-driven Development.” The Summit will be attended by 6 Mekong subregional countries, president of the Asian Development Bank (ADB), representatives of GMS Business Council, and other concerned parties.
GMS, which was established in 1992, brought together the 6 Mekong subregional countries of Cambodia, China (specifically Yunnan Province and the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region), Laos, Myanmar, Thailand, and Vietnam. With its vision of a more prosperous, integrated, and harmonious subregion”, GMS strives to reduce disparity with no one being left behind. The GMS Program has adopted a three-pronged strategy (the three Cs), namely, connectivity, competitiveness, and community.
Lao PDR, as ACMECS chair, will host The 10th Ayeyawady-Chao Phraya-Mekong Economic Cooperation Strategy (ACMECS) Summit under the theme “Towards Seamless Connectivity for Mekong Sub-regional Integration,”. Progress under the 3 Goals of the ACMECS Master Plan 2019 – 2023, namely, Seamless Connectivity, Synchronized Economies, and Smart and Sustainable ACMECS, will also be reviewed at the 10th ACMECS Summit. Myanmar is set to chair ACMECS for 2025-2026.
At the 10th ACMECS Summit, Thailand intends to play a coordinating role among ACMECS development partners, and will propose cooperation on common challenges, including transnational crime, air pollution, and climate change.
ACMECS, which was launched in 2003, is Thailand’s initiative and the only cooperation framework that comprises 5 Mekong subregional countries, namely, Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar, Thailand, and Vietnam. The aims are to bridge the economic gap among these member countries and to promote prosperity in the sub-region in a sustainable manner. ACMECS will not only benefit the five countries, but also add value to ASEAN and its solidarity. Currently, ACMECS Master Plan (2019-2023) are being implemented. Thailand has placed great importance on ACMECS as the centrality that bridges other cooperation frameworks in the subregion.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/89869