รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM to take field visit to Phuket on April 19


วันศุกร์ที่ 19 เมษายน 2567
19/04/2567
พิมพ์
​PM to take field visit to Phuket on April 19
​PM to take field visit to Phuket on April 19
April 17, 2024, Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed that Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin is scheduled to visit Phuket on April 19, 2024 to observe the progress of the province’s traffic solution plan, and follow up on the operation of provincial police forces against illicit drugs, informal debts, gambling rings, and foreign mafias, among others. Accompanying the Prime Minister are Minister of Transport Suriya Juangroongruangkit, Permanent Secretary to Ministry of Transport Chayatham Phromsorn, PTT Chairman Chatchai Phromlert, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister for Political Affairs Pongsaran Assawachaisophon, and Pol. Gen. Kitrat Panphet, Acting Chief of the Royal Thai Police. The Prime Minister’s schedule is as follows:
At approx. 0900hrs, the Prime Minister and delegation will leave from the Royal Thai Air Forces Airport (Wing 6) for Phuket International Airport. At 1030hrs, at the airport meeting room, he will chair a meeting to follow-up on the road construction projects to resolve traffic problem in the province, i.e., 1) Highway No. 4027 (Bypass) (new route and elevated bridge connecting the airport); 2) Highway No. 4027 (Bypass) (expansion of existing route to 4 lanes); 3) an interchange of Highway No. 402 and Highway No. 4027 (Bypass); and 4) the new Sarasin Bridge.
The Prime Minister will, then, listen to the briefing on the construction of a Highway-4027 overpass (Bypass), section Ban Muang Mai – Airport Intersection (km. 18+850 - km.20+800), at the construction site in Thalang district, before visiting the construction site of the new Sarasin Bridge.
In the afternoon, at the Police Regional Office 8, Phuket, the Prime Minister will follow up on the operation of the provincial police forces in suppressing illicit drugs and narcotics, gambling rings and online gambling, and foreign mafias; as well as the effort to tackle informal debts through the launch of debt resolution market; resolving of rubber problem, border smuggling, and housing for police officers; and restriction on alcohol sale at stores akin to entertainment places.
The Prime Minister will visit the construction site of and listen to the briefing on the interchange of Highway No. 402 and Highway No. 4027 (Bypass) (Tha Reu Intersection), before traveling to Koh Kaew Intersection to observe traffic solution at the surrounding U-turn points. He will later return to Bangkok at around 1640hrs of the same day. The schedule may be adjusted as appropriate.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/81883