รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Official Visit to Thailand of Prime Minister of New Zealand Between April 16 – 18, 2024


วันจันทร์ที่ 8 เมษายน 2567
08/04/2567
พิมพ์
Official Visit to Thailand of Prime Minister of New Zealand Between April 16 – 18, 2024
Official Visit to Thailand of Prime Minister of New Zealand Between April 16 – 18, 2024
April 8, 2024, Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed that Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin will have a bilateral meeting with the Right Honourable Christopher Luxon, Prime Minister of New Zealand, on the occasion of the official visit to Thailand as a guest of the Thai Government during April 16 – 18, 2024 upon an invitation of the Prime Minister.
The Prime Minister will chair the official welcoming ceremony for the Prime Minister of New Zealand on April 17, 2024 at the Government House, followed by a bilateral meeting between the two leaders, where cooperation in the areas of mutual interest will be discussed. The Prime Minister will also meet with the New Zealand business delegation. Later, both Prime Ministers will witness the signing of agreements between the relevant agencies of the two countries, which will be followed by a Joint Press Conference. Then the Prime Minister will host a luncheon in honour of the Prime Minister of New Zealand.
According to the Government Spokesperson, this official visit of the Prime Minister of New Zealand reflects the close and cordial relations between Thailand and New Zealand. It will also provide an opportunity for Thailand and New Zealand to deepen mutual cooperation. Moreover, opportunity for Thailand and New Zealand to deepen mutual cooperation in all areas, particularly in defence and security, economic, clean energy, innovation, education and cultural areas, as well as people-to-people cooperation. In addition, a Joint Statement between Thailand and New Zealand will also be issued to underscore the outcome of the Official Visit.
This official visit is the first official visit to Thailand by the Prime Minister of New Zealand in 11 years. The Prime Minister of New Zealand’s delegation will comprise the Honourable Simon Watts MP, the Minister for Climate Change of New Zealand, the Honourable Paulo Garcia MP, Member of Parliament, officials from relevant government agencies, including a business delegation.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/81462