รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM receives congratulatory phone call from Lao PM 


วันอังคารที่ 29 สิงหาคม 2566
29/08/2566
พิมพ์
PM receives congratulatory phone call from Lao PM
PM receives congratulatory phone call from Lao PM
August 28, 2023, at 1345 hrs, Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin had a phone conversation with Prime Minister Sonexay Siphandone of Lao PDR.
The Lao Prime Minister congratulated the Prime Minister for being appointed as 30th Prime Minister of Thailand, and commended him for his rich economic experiences. He expressed confidence that bilateral relations and cooperation between the two countries would continue to grow, and extended his invitation for Prime Minister Srettha to visit Lao PDR at the first opportunity. Thailand and Lao PDR, as neighbors, have established diplomatic relations for over 73 years. Relations between the two countries have been elevated to strategic partnership for growth and sustainable development. Thai and Lao people also have close ties. The Lao Prime Minister hoped that Prime Minister Srettha would continue to support existing cooperation projects, especially various assistances under the royal initiatives provided to Lao PDR by members of the royal family.
The Lao Prime Minister called on Thailand to continue to play an important role in Lao economic development endeavor. He expressed hope for: 1) an increase of trade and investment between the two countries to mitigate regional economic problems; 2) continued development of transport connectivity, especially China-Laos-Thailand rail link project, and the 5th Friendship Bridge, which will soon be completed; and 3) continued promotion of energy security, under which several power plants in Lao PDR have exported electricity to Thailand.
The Thai Prime Minister thanked the Lao counterpart for congratulatory phone call and message, and hoped to pay a visit to Lao PDR at the first opportunity to further strengthen relations. As Thailand’s neighboring country, he affirmed the Government’s commitment to tighten relations and cooperation with Lao PDR, and to work closely together with the country toward economic advancement. He also expressed his intent to make Lao PDR one of the first destinations in his introductory tour to ASEAN countries, and to meet with the Lao Prime Minister at the first opportunity. Prime Minister Srettha took the opportunity to convey his regards to President Thongloun Sisoulith and H.E. General Khamtai Siphandone, for which the Lao Prime Minister thanked the Thai counterpart on their behalf.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/71784