รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Govt strives to promote domestic sourcing of components and parts among foreign investors


วันอาทิตย์ที่ 19 พฤษภาคม 2567
Govt strives to promote domestic sourcing of components and parts among foreign investors
Govt strives to promote domestic sourcing of components and parts among foreign investors
May 17, 2024, Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed that Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin has a policy to support investment in S-Curve and future industries. He has emphasized at the opening of SUBCON Thailand 2024 that with a number of supporting factors, the country is at a good position to attract inward foreign investment. The Government strives to encourage Thai entrepreneurs to be part of global and regional supply chains through promoting domestic sourcing of components and parts among foreign investors. According to the BOI, 7 Chinese automakers have been granted investment privileges with the plan for domestic sourcing of components and parts. Among them, 3 have started their EV manufacturing in Thailand, 3 are planning to start in the 3rd and 4th quarter of this year, whereas the other one will begin their manufacturing of EV in early 2025. The privileges cover all segments of EV-related items. This is believed to gradually increase the demand for domestic components and parts.”
BOI has made approval to more than 80 billion Baht in investment value, among which are 18 BEV manufacturing projects, worth 40 billion Baht, with the production capacity of 400,000 units. The Prime Minister wants to ensure that Thai entrepreneurs continue to benefit from inward foreign investment. This is not only to promote equitable distribution of revenue, but also to increase capacities and national competitiveness, as well as to upgrade quality of Thai products, and promote the country’s quality supply chain in line with the manufacturing process for sustainable growth. Thailand is ready not only in terms of investment, but also in investment-supported factors and components.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/83242