รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on November 28, 2023.


วันพุธที่ 29 พฤศจิกายน 2566
The cabinet met on November 28, 2023.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Management for Clean Air Act
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Management for Clean Air Act, B.E. …, ad acknowledged the plan to develop subordinate legislations, related timeframe and gist of the subordinate legislations to be enacted under the draft Management for Clean Air Act. This is as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment.
Gist
The draft Management for Clean Air Act, B.E. … is aimed to address the critical problem of PM2.5 in the air in a sustainable, efficient, and concrete manner. The bill prescribes management and control mechanisms of air pollution in all dimensions, pollution control from the sources, e.g., automobile exhaust, cigarette smoke, burning smoke and fuel combustion in factories’ process, stubble burning, etc., and introduction of economic tools and measures to support and provide incentives for clean air. The mechanisms will allow governmental committees and agencies to work together on air pollution management.
Title: Request for approval of the Declaration on Sustainable Agriculture, Resilient Food Systems, and Climate Action
The cabinet approved the proposals of Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives as follows:
Approved the draft Declaration on Sustainable Agriculture, Resilient Food Systems, and Climate Action
Authorized Minister of Agriculture and Cooperatives or a representative as signatory of the Declaration.
Gist
The United Arab Emirates, as host country of COP28 UNFCC, to be held during November 30 and December 12, 2023, has made a written statement to FAO (Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations) member countries to request approval from member countries on the signing of the draft Declaration on Sustainable Agriculture, Resilient Food Systems, and Climate Action. The signing ceremony will take place during the World Climate Action Summit (WCAS) on December 1, 2023, during the 28th United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP28 UNFCCC) in the United Arab Emirates.
Title: Thailand’s membership at Climate Club
The cabinet approved the proposals of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment as follows:
Approved for Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, through the Department of Climate Change and Environment, to become a member of the Climate Club on behalf of Thailand.
Authorize Permanent Secretary to Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment or a representative as signatory of the Letter of Interest to be submitted to the Climate Club. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
Gist
Climate Club is the initiative of the Federal Republic of Germany. The Group of Seven (G7) has later established the Climate Club in December 2022. There are currently 22 member countries, including the Republic of Indonesia, and the Republic of Singapore. The Climate Club is aimed to make an important contribution to achieving global climate targets in line with the Paris Climate Accords. Thailand’s membership in the Climate Club will enable the country to take part in setting green market and product standards, creating a shared understanding of the economic impacts of greenhouse gas reduction policies, and technology transfer, among others.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/75346