รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on April 2, 2024


วันอังคารที่ 9 เมษายน 2567
The cabinet met on April 2, 2024
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Announcement of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment on Environmental Protection Zoning and Measures in Koh Samui District’s Taling Ngam Subdistrict, Bo Phut Subdistrict, Maret Subdistrict, Maenam Subdistrict, Na Mueang Subdistrict, Ang Thong Subdistrict, Lipa Noi Subdistrict, and Koh Phangan District’s Koh Phangan Subdistrict, Ban Tai Subdistrict, Koh Tao Subdistrict, Surat Thani Province, B.E. …
The cabinet approved the followings:
Approved in principle the draft Announcement of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment on Environmental Protection Zoning and Measures in Koh Samui District’s Taling Ngam Subdistrict, Bo Phut Subdistrict, Maret Subdistrict, Maenam Subdistrict, Na Mueang Subdistrict, Ang Thong Subdistrict, Lipa Noi Subdistrict, and Koh Phangan District’s Koh Phangan Subdistrict, Ban Tai Subdistrict, Koh Tao Subdistrict, Surat Thani Province, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment
Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment is to take comments of Ministry of Transport and the Board of Investment into consideration
Gist
The draft Announcement is a revision to the Announcement of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment on Environmental Protection Zoning and Measures in Koh Samui District’s Taling Ngam Subdistrict, Bo Phut Subdistrict, Maret Subdistrict, Maenam Subdistrict, Na Mueang Subdistrict, Ang Thong Subdistrict, Lipa Noi Subdistrict, and Koh Phangan District’s Koh Phangan Subdistrict, Ban Tai Subdistrict, Koh Tao Subdistrict, Surat Thani Province, B.E. 2557, which will no longer be effective from May 30, 2025 onward. The revision is made on zoning and environmental protection measures in the aforementioned areas to reduce the impact of building and factory construction, and to be in line with the current situation.
The draft Announcement will take effect for 5 years from the date of enforcement.
Title: Draft Licensing Facilitation and Public Service Provision, B.E. …
The cabinet approved the following proposals of the Office of the Public Sector Development Commission:
Approved in principle the draft Licensing Facilitation and Public Service Provision, B.E. …
Approved the proposal to conduct a trial in accordance with key principles under the draft Licensing Facilitation and Public Service Provision, B.E. …, and assigned Office of the Public Sector Development Commission to select related agencies for the trial
Acknowledged the plan for secondary legislatures, and related gist and timeframes
Gist
The draft Licensing Facilitation and Public Service Provision, B.E. … is an update of the Licensing Facilitation, B.E. 2558, which applies to the granting of all permissions or licensing as well as all registrations or notifications in which the application for those are required by laws or rules prior to doing any activity. The aim is to update licensing facilitation according to the current socio-economic situation and the E-Government Act, B.E. 2565, and to expand the scope of the Act to ensure a more diversified public service provision.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Exemption of Toll Fee for Motorway No. 7 and No. 9 for a Specified Period (No. …) B.E. … (During Songkran Holiday of 2024)
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Exemption of Toll Fee for Motorway No. 7 and No. 9 for a Specified Period (No. …) B.E. … (During Songkran Holiday of 2024), as proposed by Ministry of Transport.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation prescribes exemption of toll fee for Motorway No. 7 (Bangkok-Ban Chang), and No. 9 (Kanchanaphisek Rd.: - Phra Pradaeng – Bang Khae and Bang Pa in - Bang Phli sections) from 0001hrs of April 11, 2024 to 2400hrs of April 17, 2024. This is to facilitate people’s traveling during the long holidays.
Title: Minimum Wages for Hotel Businesses
The cabinet acknowledged the proposal of Ministry of Labor on an Announcement of the Wage Committee on Minimum Wages for Hotel Businesses, dated March 27, 2024, and ordered for it to be published in the Royal Gazette. The draft Announcement shall take effect from April 13, 2024 onward.
Gist
The Announcement of the Wage Committee on Minimum Wages for Hotel Businesses prescribes minimum wage increase for 4-star hotels (with over 50 employees) in 10 tourist destination provinces, namely, Bangkok (specifically the Pathum Wan and Wattana districts), Krabi (only Ao Nang sub-district), Chonburi (specifically Pattaya City), Chiang Mai Municipality, Prachuap Khiri Khan (only Hua Hin), Phang Nga (only Khuekkhak), Phuket, Rayong (only Ban Phe sub-district), Songkhla (only Hat Yai), and Surat Thani (only Ko Samui) to 400 Baht per day.
Title: Draft Ministerial Announcement on Exemption of Toll Fee for Burapha Withi Expressway, Kanchanaphisek (Bang Phli-Suk Sawat) Expressway, and Chalong Rat Expressway During Songkran Holiday of 2024
The cabinet acknowledged the draft Ministerial Announcement on Exemption of Toll Fee for Burapha Withi Expressway, Kanchanaphisek (Bang Phli-Suk Sawat) Expressway, and Chalong Rat Expressway During Songkran Holiday of 2024, as proposed by Ministry of Transport.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation prescribes exemption of toll fee for Burapha Withi Expressway, Kanchanaphisek (Bang Phli-Suk Sawat) Expressway, and Chalong Rat Expressway from 0001hrs of April 11, 2024 to 2400hrs of April 17, 2024. This is to facilitate people’s traveling during the long holidays.
Title: Budget Calendar for Fiscal Year 2025 (2nd Revision)
The cabinet acknowledged the Budget Calendar for Fiscal Year 2025 (2nd Revision), as proposed by the Budget Bureau. The revision has been made in line with the revision of Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF).
Gist
Budget Calendar for Fiscal Year 2025 (2nd Revision) is as follows:
House of Representatives: 1st Reading of the draft Budget Expenditure Act for Fiscal Year 2025 (June 5-6, 2024)
House of Representatives: 2nd and 3rd Readings of the draft Budget Expenditure Act for Fiscal Year 2025 (August 28-29, 2024)
The Senate: Deliberation of the draft Budget Expenditure Act for Fiscal Year 2025 (September 9-10, 2024)
The Cabinet Secretariat: Proposal of the draft Budget Expenditure Act for Fiscal Year 2025 for His Majesty the King’s signing on September 17, 2024
Title: Draft MOU on International Lunar Research Station (ILRS) Cooperation between Thailand’s Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation and China National Space Administration (CNSA)
The cabinet approved the draft MOU on International Lunar Research Station (ILRS) Cooperation between Thailand’s Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation and China National Space Administration (CNSA). Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Permanent Secretary to Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation or a representative is authorized as signatory of the MOU. This is as proposed by Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation.
Gist
The draft MOU on International Lunar Research Station (ILRS) Cooperation between Thailand’s Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation and China National Space Administration (CNSA) is aimed to promote cooperation on the construction of an international lunar research station, and space exploration and exploitation. In signing the MOU, Thailand will be the first ASEAN nation to take part in the construction of an international lunar research station. This is for the interest of the nation’s research, science and high technology endeavor.
Title: Draft Joint Statement of 11th ASEAN Finance Ministers' and Central Bank Governors' Meeting (AFMGM)
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Joint Statement of 11th ASEAN Finance Ministers' and Central Bank Governors' Meeting (AFMGM). Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Finance may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Finance or a representative is authorized to adopt the Joint Statement of 11th ASEAN Finance Ministers' and Central Bank Governors' Meeting (AFMGM). This is as proposed by Ministry of Finance.
Gist
The 11th ASEAN Finance Ministers' and Central Bank Governors' Meeting (AFMGM) and related meetings will be held on April 5, 2024 in Luang Phrabang, Lao PDR. The Joint Statement demonstrates the intent of ASEAN Finance Ministers' and Central Bank Governors to work together in strengthening ASEAN connectivity and immunity, promoting infrastructure connectivity, and tightening relations between ASEAN and non-ASEAN partners through ASEAN centrality. The Joint Statement also prescribes joint commitment to achieve financial integration under the ASEAN Economic Community 2025 Blueprint.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/81495