รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM supports Thai industrial sector and SMEs to international market, DIPORM organizes “the 23rd OTAGAI Forum in Sasebo” in Japan matching Thai – Japanese entrepreneurs.


วันจันทร์ที่ 10 มิถุนายน 2567
PM supports Thai industrial sector and SMEs to international market, DIPORM organizes “the 23rd OTAGAI Forum in Sasebo” in Japan matching Thai – Japanese entrepreneurs.
PM supports Thai industrial sector and SMEs to international market, DIPORM organizes “the 23rd OTAGAI Forum in Sasebo” in Japan matching Thai – Japanese entrepreneurs.
June 7, 2024, Government spokesperson Chai Watcharonke disclosed that with Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin’s policy encouraging Thai entrepreneurs into international markets, the Department of Industrial Promotion (DIPROM) organized “the 23rd OTAGAI Forum in Sasebo” Nagasaki, Japan at the end of May.  There were more than 100 Thai and Japanese entrepreneurs from various industries participating which could create economic trade links.  It is also expected economic value of more than 3,000 million baht from this event.
According to the Government Spokesperson, The Department of Industrial Promotion (DIPROM) organized “the 23rd OTAGAI Forum in Sasebo” which was organized at the end of May 2024.  This event has been organized continuously since 2011, this year under concept called “Otagai” means “Each other” in Japanese.  Thai and Japanese entrepreneurs from various industries such as Shipbuilding Industry, Steel products, Technology management, Wastewater treatment, Digital platforms, Food and Processed agricultural products attending the event to be able to present their own products and services and utilize DIPROM Connection to contact Japanese Government both Central, Local and also Private sector.  Moreover, they could promote and exchange cooperation including knowledge, innovation, technology, and personnel training, on particularly BCG Economy (Bio-Circular-Green Economy) such as renewable energy both wind and solar.
According to information from Ministry of Commerce, the Department of Business Development, Japan currently ranked no.1 in investing in Thailand, in the first quarter of 2024, Japanese investors invested over 19,006 million bath. Surely, it reflects Japanese private sector’s confidence in Thai economy.
“The Prime Minister appreciates the work of all relevant sectors which jointly support government’s policy on growing economic.  The project is considered as an opportunity for Thai and Japanese entrepreneurs to exchange ideas, work, and innovations. It is also an important gateway for bridging industrial sectors and SMEs, which will play important roles in the world economic in the future.  It is also a platform for Thai economic potentials to attract Japanese private sector.” The Government Spokesperson.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/84224