รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Thailand on track to become world's second-largest rice exporter


วันศุกร์ที่ 30 มิถุนายน 2566
30/06/2566
พิมพ์
​Thailand on track to become world's second-largest rice exporter
​Thailand on track to become world's second-largest rice exporter
June 30, 2023, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha was updated on Thai rice export situation and the implementation of Thai Rice Strategies (2020 – 2024) which is aimed to make Thailand a world leader in the production and marketing of quality rice and rice products.
According to the Government Spokesperson, concerned public and private sectors have been working together to develop new rice varieties to increase Thai rice diversity. A total of 21 rice varieties have been developed within the first 3 years of the implementation, exceeding the original goal, which is to obtain 12 new varieties within 5 years. Thai rice export situation during the first 4 months of 2023 is also impressive, with the export volume of 2.62 million tons, an increase of 14.41%yoy.
The Government has also a policy to strengthen relations with major trade partners, such as, Iraq, Indonesia, South Africa, U.S.A., and China, in parallel with seeking new markets. Recently, Thai trade representatives have met with trade counterparts in Hong Kong, China, the Philippines, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Japan, and South Africa to further strengthen relations and cooperation; and have participated in international exhibitions to increase Thai rice opportunity in the global market, i.e., China–ASEAN Expo (China), Fine Food (Australia), ANUGA (Germany), and domestically-held THAIFEX–ANUGA ASIA 2023. Additionally, a promotional campaign has been undertaken to create awareness on positive image and uniqueness of Thai rice under the concept: “Think Rice Think Thailand”.
With the cooperation and integrative effort of all concerned sectors, the Prime Minister is confident that Thai rice export in 2023 will reach the set target of over 8 million tons, making the country world’s 2nd largest rice exporter. Quality of life of the Thai farmers is also expected to be elevated with an increase in earnings from rice export.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/69862