รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM calls on everyone to join hands in conserving water resources on occasion of World Water Day 2025


วันศุกร์ที่ 21 มีนาคม 2568
21/03/2568
พิมพ์
PM calls on everyone to join hands in conserving water resources on occasion of World Water Day 2025
PM calls on everyone to join hands in conserving water resources on occasion of World Water Day 2025
March 21, 2025, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra delivered a speech on occasion of the World Water Day 2025. World Water Day has been observed on March 22 every year since 1993 by the United Nations to raise awareness of the global community on the importance of freshwater, conserving and managing water resources in accordance with the sustainable development principle.
As the planet gets hotter due to climate change, frozen world, i.e., glacier ice, is shrinking, impacting survival of mankind and damaging ecosystems. With no exception, Thailand has been affected by drought and flood. The World Water Day 2025, therefore, focuses on the theme “Glacier Preservation” to raise awareness of all countries on the importance of the significant freshwater resource that sustains ecosystems and regulates the world's climate.
The Thai Government has placed great importance on integrated management of water resources, and has implemented related policies in line with the Sustainable Development Goal 6, which aims to "Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all". Focus is made on providing sufficient sources of water for consumption to meet the people’s needs and to accommodate urban growth and global climate change; restoring natural resources and tackling flood and drought problems; promoting sustainable management of water resources; encouraging the public to conserve water resources and use water in a wise and cost-effective manner; introducing proper waste management; and engaging community people in protecting and conserving water sources in their own communities. Additionally, Thailand also strives to promote water cooperation at both the regional and international levels, and commits to work with the global community to address and cope with water crises through cooperation and joint effort of all sectors.
On occasion of the World Water Day 2025, the Prime Minister invited the Thai people and all sectors and agencies to join hands in conserving water sources, to use water wisely, and be aware of and adapt to the world's water situation. She encouraged everyone to take part in tackling the climate change so that Thailand will have enough water into the future. It is everyone’s duty to create a sustainable future for the Thai children and the world.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/94600