รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM meets with Japanese METI Minister


วันจันทร์ที่ 18 ธันวาคม 2566
18/12/2566
พิมพ์
PM meets with Japanese METI Minister
PM meets with Japanese METI Minister
December 15, 2023, at 0900hrs (Japan local time), at the Imperial Hotel Tokyo, Japan, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin met with H.E. Mr. Saito Ken, Minister of Economic, Trade and Industry (METI) of Japan during the Commemorative Summit for the 50th Year of ASEAN-Japan Friendship and Cooperation. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister and Japanese METI Minister were pleased with close and cordial relations between the two countries, especially economic cooperation. The Japanese private sector has long taken on an important role in driving forward Thai economic development. Thailand has placed great importance on trade and investment cooperation with Japan, and has organized the investment forum to share its investment policies and incentives to Japanese investors.
The Prime Minister also took the opportunity to invite Japan to join in Thailand’s Landbridge project and consider investing in the country’s S-Curve industries, which would further advance regional economic development.
Both parties also discussed automotive cooperation. During his visit to Japan, the Prime Minister would meet with representatives of 7 Japanese automotive companies to boost their confidence on the Thai Government’s continued support on combustion vehicle industry, in parallel with implementing policy to develop EVs and modern automotive. Thailand has also implemented new measures to enhance competitiveness of Japanese ICE industry in Thailand during the transition.
The Japanese METI Minister commended Thailand’s investment promotion policies, and thanked the Thai Government for its continued support provided to Japanese investors. Japan is pleased to cooperate with Thailand under the Asia Zero-Emission Community (AZEC) framework to promote energy security and transition. He also proposed an initiative to establish an energy and industrial dialogue mechanism to further promote green energy with Thailand.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/76265