รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand and Japan commit to strengthen cooperation in new industries


วันจันทร์ที่ 18 ธันวาคม 2566
18/12/2566
พิมพ์
Thailand and Japan commit to strengthen cooperation in new industries
Thailand and Japan commit to strengthen cooperation in new industries
December 17, 2023, at 1540hrs (Tokyo local time), at the Prime Minister's Office of Japan, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin had a bilateral meeting with H.E. Mr. Kishida Fumio, Prime Minister of Japan, during the Commemorative Summit for the 50th Year of ASEAN-Japan Friendship and Cooperation. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister affirmed Thailand’s commitment to maintain a favorable investment climate for Japanese investors through implementing a number of measures including exemption of visa for short-term business-related purposes, and called on the Japanese Government to provide support to the Thai private sector. The Thai Government also hopes to work together with Japan in promoting soft power, i.e., OTOP which has been inspired by Japan’s OVOP.
With regard to the cooperation on digital economy, Thailand hopes to attract more investors and skilled digital workers from Japan, especially in the fields of large-scale data centers and high-quality cloud services. The Prime Minister also endorsed in principle the Energy and Industrial Dialogue, and would be pleased to cooperate with Japan under the Asia Zero Emission Community (AZEC) framework. He also expressed Thailand’s intent to become a member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) to attract greater investment into the country.
The Japanese Prime Minister thanked the Thai Government for its approval on exemption of visa for short-term business-related purposes, and proposed the Energy and Industrial Dialogue with Thailand as a mechanism for energy and industrial development cooperation.
The two Prime Ministers also discussed the Myanmar situation in a constructive manner, including the humanitarian situation. The Thai Prime Minister also thanked the Japanese counterpart for expressing concern over Thai nationals who have been held hostage in Israel. Both premiers came to terms that all sides should end violence and seek to solve problems through peaceful dialogue.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/76301