รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Six outcome documents endorsed and approved at 6th BIMSTEC Summit


วันอังคารที่ 8 เมษายน 2568
08/04/2568
พิมพ์
Six outcome documents endorsed and approved at 6th BIMSTEC Summit
Six outcome documents endorsed and approved at 6th BIMSTEC Summit
April 4, 2025, at 1300hrs, at the Shangri-La Hotel Bangkok, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra delivered a closing remarks for the 6th Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC) Summit and related meetings. Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed gist of the remarks as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed honor to chair the 6th BIMSTEC Summit. As the host of the 1st BIMSTEC Summit in 2004, it was a pleasure to bring BIMSTEC back home to Bangkok, and to have an opportunity to build on the foundations laid over the past 20 years.
The theme of Thailand’s Chairmanship is “Prosperous, Resilient, and Open BIMSTEC (PRO BIMSTEC)”. Given the current international circumstances and regional challenges, BIMSTEC will fortify cooperation and collective actions. This includes efforts in preparation, relief and recovery to countries affected by natural disasters through existing cooperation, including a more robust mechanism based on the recent experience from the recent earthquake.
The Prime Minister also disclosed the 6 key outcome documents approved by BIMSTEC Leaders today:
1. BIMSTEC Bangkok Vision 2030, which is a key highlight of the Summit, the first ever vision that outlines a strategic plan to build a Prosperous, Resilient and Open or “PRO BIMSTEC” by 2030. The Vision focuses on enhancing economic integration, connectivity, and human security.
2. The 6th BIMSTEC Summit Declaration, which reaffirms commitment of member states towards BIMSTEC and the BIMSTEC Bangkok Vision 2030
3. The Rules of Procedure for BIMSTEC Mechanisms, which will provide a more systematic and rules-based framework for BIMSTEC operations, ensuring greater efficiency and consistency.
4. The Report of the BIMSTEC Eminent Persons’ Group on the Future Direction of BIMSTEC, which offers key recommendations that align with the BIMSTEC Bangkok Vision 2030.
5. Agreement on Maritime Transport Cooperation, to strengthen maritime connectivity between South and Southeast Asia, improve logistical efficiency, reduce trade costs, and enhance the movement of goods and people.
6. The BIMSTEC Leaders’ Joint Statement on the Impact of the Earthquake in Myanmar. This Joint Statement expresses condolences, solidarity, and commitment to supporting the affected countries. It also aims to reflect firm collaboration in disaster management and to strengthen response mechanisms for natural disasters.
The outcomes of this Summit will also deliver concrete and tangible benefits to the Thai people. The Agreement on Maritime Transport Cooperation will reduce shipping costs and improve supply chain efficiency — making Thai exports more competitive and create new market and investment opportunities. Enhanced people-to-people exchanges through tourism and cultural cooperation will boost Thailand’s tourism sector and create new job opportunities. Ultimately, these outcomes will translate into greater economic opportunities and improved livelihoods for the Thai people.
The Prime Minister also mentioned about bilateral meetings with BIMSTEC leaders prior to the 6th BIMSTEC Summit.Thailand welcomed the official visits of The Right Honorable Mr. K P Sharma Oli, Prime Minister of Nepal on 2nd April 2025, and His Excellency Mr. Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of India on 3rd and 4th April 2025.
The visit by the Nepali Prime Minister marked the first ever official visit to Thailand by a Prime Minister of Nepal. Various areas of cooperation, including trade and economy, ease of doing business, agriculture, tourism and cultured, as well as human resource development assistance which Thailand has extended to Nepal for over 50 years, were discussed. Moreover, 8 agreements and MoUs were signed during this visit.
The Indian Prime Minister’s visit was marked by the announcement of the elevation of Thailand-India relations to a Strategic Partnership. Thailand and India agreed to enhance cooperation in various areas including political and defence cooperation, trade and investment, physical, digital and people-to-people connectivity, culture and tourism, including the development of a Buddhist Circuit, as well as exchanged views on regional and global issues. Both the leaders also welcomed the exchange of several important agreements and MoUs between India and Thailand.
Lastly, The Prime Minister congratulated all BIMSTEC Member States for the success of today’s Summit, and look forward to Bangladesh’s leadership in continuing BIMSTEC successes.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/95186