รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand - Bhutan strengthen economic cooperation through signing of FTA


วันอังคารที่ 8 เมษายน 2568
08/04/2568
พิมพ์
Thailand - Bhutan strengthen economic cooperation through signing of FTA
Thailand - Bhutan strengthen economic cooperation through signing of FTA
April 3, 2025, at 1300hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed about the meeting between Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra and Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Bhutan Dasho Tshering Tobgay on occasion of the latter’s visit to Thailand to attend the 6th BIMSTEC Summit. Gist of the meeting is as follows:
The Prime Minister commended Bhutan’s intricate preparations for the official visit of His Majesty the King and Her Majesty the Queen to Bhutan, which is an important milestone in the history of Thai - Bhutanese relations. Concerned authorities of the two countries are ready to work closely together to ensure that the official visit is arranged to fit the royal honor. The Bhutanese Prime Minister disclosed readiness of the Bhutanese Government and people to welcome their Majesties, and various events will be held throughout this year to celebrate Thai-Bhutanese relations.
The Bhutanese Prime Minister also expressed his concern over the recent earthquake. His Majesty the King of Bhutan also conveyed his sympathy and encouragement to the Thai Government and people. The Prime Minister commended the Thai Government's prompt and efficient incident management and Thailand's construction standards for earthquake resistance, reflecting the country's efficient disaster management.
Both the leaders also came to terms that the Thailand-Bhutan Free Trade Agreement, to be signed after this meeting, would further promote trade and investment cooperation between the two countries. Thailand is interested in investing in tourism industry, smart cities, and digital infrastructure in Bhutan.
The Prime Minister of Bhutan also thanked the Thai Government’s cooperation and support in Bhutan’s implementation of "One Gewog, One Product" (OGOP), which is developed after Thailand's "One Village, One Product" (OTOP). Both parties are confident that OGOP will help enhance community potentials and increase Bhutan's local product values in the global market.
The two leaders also agreed on the "Two Kingdoms, One Destination" to promote tourism of both countries. The Prime Minister extended an invitation for Bhutan to attend "Thailand Travel Mart Plus" to be held in Chiang Mai in June 2025. This will be an opportunity to meet with tourism operators from all over the world and to create tourism cooperation networks.
The Prime Minister affirmed the Thai Government’s scholarship support and personnel exchanges between Thailand and Bhutan, especially in the fields of advanced technology and artificial intelligence (AI), which are important skills in the digital age. The Government has also a policy to promote training and skills development for Thai youngsters in the service, food and health sectors to increase their economic opportunities.
Regarding regional and multilateral cooperation, Bhutan commended Thailand’s hosting of the 6th BIMSTEC Summit, and expressed support for Thailand in the international arena. The two leaders believed that this BIMSTEC Summit would help strengthen cooperation among member states, and engender tangible benefits to the people of the region.
Later, at 1400hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, the Prime Ministers of Thailand and Bhutan witnessed the signing of the Thailand-Bhutan Free Trade Agreement (FTA), which will help strengthen economic cooperation between the two countries in the long run.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/95185