รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM affirms Thailand’s commitments toward SDG attainment at SDG Summit 2023


วันพุธที่ 20 กันยายน 2566
20/09/2566
พิมพ์
PM affirms Thailand’s commitments toward SDG attainment at SDG Summit 2023
PM affirms Thailand’s commitments toward SDG attainment at SDG Summit 2023
September 19, 2023, at 1700hrs (local time) at the Trusteeship Council Chamber, UN Headquarters, New York City, U.S.A., Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin delivered a statement at the Leaders’ Dialogue of the SDG Summit 2023, on “Mobilizing finance and investments and the means of implementation for SDG achievement”. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of his statement as follows:
The Prime Minister was pleased to deliver his first address to the United Nations at the SDG Summit after recently assuming office, and affirmed the Government’s priority to attain the Sustainable Development Goals, as key to Thailand’s sustainable future. UN has announced that this decade be the “Decade of Action”. Political will must go hand in hand with international solidarity. Effective multilateralism and a strong multilateral architecture need to be fostered, which will allow the global community to tackle these challenges and accelerate SDG implementation.
It is also crucial that the international community address the SDG financing gap, scale up SDG investment, find innovative sources of finance, and level the playing field regarding international financial architecture. Thailand supports the Secretary-General’s call for the reform of this architecture, and his SDG Stimulus of 500 billion US dollars a year until 2030.
At the national level, Thailand has issued two sets of sustainability bonds which raised 12.5 billion US Dollars in green and social investments, and launched the Thailand Green Taxonomy as a reference tool for economic activities deemed as environmentally sustainable. More than 100 companies in Thailand that make up the Global Compact Network Thailand (GCNT) have pledged to invest 43 billion US Dollars in SDG-related projects by 2030.
According to the Prime Minister, however, what is needed with great urgency is a more people-centered and planet-centric development. With the Sufficiency Economy Philosophy (SEP), Thailand’s own development approach, and the Bio-Circular-Green Economy Model (BCG), this transformative approach will help strike a balance among the economic, social, and environmental goals of the SDGs.
Thailand has submitted the following national commitments toward SDG attainment, that aim to uplift the livelihood and well-being of the people and empower the grassroots:
1. Pledging to leave no one behind while reaching those furthest behind first, and aims to alleviate all households living with generational poverty from their predicament by 2027
2. Pledging to promote and protect the human rights of all persons. To promote the right to health, Thailand will adopt measures to ensure that the number of households facing health impoverishment is minimized to below 0.25% by 2027.
3. Pledging to foster cooperation and partnerships at all levels in support of climate action, including ensuring access to affordable modern energy services for all by 2030.
The Prime Minister affirmed that Thailand would commit to delivering on the pledges. The country is doing its part to accelerate SDG attainment.
Collectively, through effective multilateralism, a legacy of sustainability will be left behind for global posterity.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/72378