รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Thai Govt encourages entrepreneurs to leverage privileges under RCEP Agreement


วันจันทร์ที่ 19 มิถุนายน 2566
19/06/2566
พิมพ์
​Thai Govt encourages entrepreneurs to leverage privileges under RCEP Agreement
​Thai Govt encourages entrepreneurs to leverage privileges under RCEP Agreement
June 15, 2023, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed about the policy handed down by Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha to promote Thai entrepreneurs’ privileges under the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) Agreement.
RCEP was formally signed in 2020, and has now entered into force in all 15 member countries, with the Philippines being the last country to put the Agreement into effect on June 2, 2023. RCEP creates the world’s largest free trade area in terms of combined gross domestic product (GDP) of member countries, which is almost a third of the world’s GDP, and the market size, as the combined population of all the 15 member countries accounts for almost one-third of the world’s population. RCEP comprises the 10 ASEAN member states, Australia, China, Japan, Korea, and New Zealand. Through the RCEP Agreement, businesses in the region, particularly the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME), can benefit not only from the market access commitments made by the member countries but also from a more liberal rules of origin that will provide businesses with broader options to source their production which could lead to increased productivity and competitiveness.
According to Ministry of Commerce’s Department of Foreign Trade, Thailand has greatly benefited from the RCEP Agreement. In January 2023, products exported to Australia, China, Japan, Korea, Singapore, Malaysia, Vietnam, Indonesia, and New Zealand under RCEP privileges worth US$97.04 in total, a significant increase of 1,039% from January 2022 when RCEP was officially taken into force in the country. Major export products under RCEP include lubricant, cassava strips, canned tuna, spark plug, among others. The Government Spokesperson added that the Government stands ready to provide help and advices to Thai entrepreneurs for them to leverage privileges under the RCEP Agreement and increase their productivity and competitiveness.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/69385