รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on October 22, 2024


วันพุธที่ 30 ตุลาคม 2567
30/10/2567
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on October 22, 2024
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Revenue Taxes (No. …) B.E. … (Exemption of personal income tax and corporate income tax for compensation received from Fisheries Department under the project to remove removing IUU fishing vessels from the system to manage sustainable marine fisheries resources)
The cabinet approved in principle the Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Revenue Taxes (No. …) B.E. … (Exemption of personal income tax and corporate income tax for compensation received from Fisheries Department under the project to remove IUU fishing vessels from the system to manage sustainable marine fisheries resources), as proposed by Ministry of Finance.
Gist
In a bid to remove IUU fishing vessels from the system to manage sustainable marine fisheries resources, Ministry of Finance proposed the Royal Decree issued under the Revenue Code Regarding Exemption from Revenue Taxes (No. …) B.E. … (Exemption of personal income tax and corporate income tax for compensation received from Fisheries Department under the project to remove IUU fishing vessels from the system to manage sustainable marine fisheries resources).
The Royal Decree prescribes exemption of personal income tax and corporate income tax for fishing vessel owners for income received from compensation from the Fisheries Department as a result of their participation in the project to remove IUU fishing vessels from the system to manage sustainable marine fisheries resources, Phase 1 (Urgent Phase) (2019 - 2020) and Phase 2 (2022 - 2023). The Royal Decree shall take effect the next day after being announced in the Royal Gazette.
Title: Thailand’s commitment for 34th International Conference of the Red Cross and Red Crescent (ICRCRC)
The cabinet approved the draft letter of commitment for 34th International Conference of the Red Cross and Red Crescent (ICRCRC) to be held during October 28-30, 2024, in Geneva, the Swiss Confederation. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against the principle approved earlier by the cabinet, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed and inform the cabinet later of the change. Head of the Thai delegation (representative from Ministry of Foreign Affairs) is authorized to announce Thailand’s commitment at the 34th ICRCRC.
Gist
The 34th ICRCRC will be held under the theme “Navigate Uncertainty – Strengthen Humanity” with 3 sub-themes, namely, 1) Building a Global Culture of Respect for International Humanitarian Law; 2) Standing by our Fundamental Principles in responding to humanitarian needs and risks; and 3) Enabling sustainable, locally-led action. At the 34th ICRCRC, Thailand will announce its commitment to stand for and place importance on promoting international humanitarian laws. It will prescribes 4 areas of commitment as follows: 1) International Humanitarian Laws; 2) Public Health; 3) Preparedness for Climate Change; and 4) Volunteers.
Title: Joint Media Statement of the 11th Meeting of the ASEAN Ministers Responsible for Culture and Arts “Bridging Cultures, Building Futures: Unity in Diversity”
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Culture:
Approved the draft Joint Media Statement the 11th Meeting of the ASEAN Ministers Responsible for Culture and Arts “Bridging Cultures, Building Futures: Unity in Diversity”. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Culture may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
Minister of Culture, as ASEAN Minister in Charge of Culture and Arts of the Kingdom of Thailand, or a representative is authorized to adopt the draft joint statement
Gist
Malaysia’s Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture Malaysia (MOTAC) will host the 11th AMCA and the 20th Senior Officials Meeting on Culture and Arts (SOMCA) during October 21-26, 2024. The draft Joint Statement to be adopted at the 11th AMCA prescribes common stance between Thailand and ASEAN member countries to promote cooperation in ASEAN culture and arts, and support the important role of culture and arts in sustainable development.
Title: Thailand’s First Biennial Transparency Report (BTR1) and combined Fifth National Communication and Second Biennial Transparency Report (NC5/BTR2)
The cabinet approved the draft MOU on Thailand’s First Biennial Transparency Report (BTR1) and combined Fifth National Communication and Second Biennial Transparency Report (NC5/BTR2). Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment through the Department of Climate Change and Environment, may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Secretary General of the Office of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy and Planning and Director General of the Department of Climate Change and Environment or their representatives are authorized as signatories of the MOU on behalf of Thailand. This is as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment.
Gist
The Office of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy and Planning, together with the Department of Climate Change and Environment, in collaboration with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), have prepared a draft Memorandum of Understanding between UNDP and the Implementing units, and the draft First Biennial Transparency Report (BTR1) and combined Fifth National Communication and Second Biennial Transparency Report (NC5/BTR2), which specify the details of UNDP's support to assist Thailand in preparing the BTR1 and NC5/BTR2, such as personnel recruitment and products/services procurement, etc. Implementation period under the MOU is 48 months (April 16, 2024- April 16, 2028)
Title: The 8th Meeting of the Governors of the Thai-Cambodian Border Provinces
The cabinet acknowledged component of the Thai delegation for the 8th Meeting of the Governors of the Thai-Cambodian Border Provinces, and approved the draft minutes and the draft joint statement of the 8th Meeting of the Governors of the Thai-Cambodian Border Provinces. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Interior may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Interior or a representative is authorized as signatory of the draft minutes. This is as proposed by Ministry of Interior.
Gist
The 8th Meeting of the Governors of the Thai-Cambodian Border Provinces is scheduled to be held on October 22-24, 2024 in Phnom Penh, Kingdom of Cambodia, hosted by Cambodia. The meeting will discuss cooperation on the areas of mutual interest without mentioning sensitive issues affecting security, politics, economy and society, on which the governments of both countries have never agreed and no agreement has been made.
The 19 issues of cooperation to be discussed at the meeting are: (1) Implementation related to cross-border agreements; (2) Cooperation on trade and investment in border areas; (3) Transportation; (4) Cooperation on agriculture in border areas; (5) Industrial cooperation; (6) Labor cooperation; (7) Management of border checkpoints; (8) Public health and community development; (9) Education; (10) Disaster management; (11) Illegal logging; (12) Border environment conservation; (13) Prevention and suppression of crime in border areas; (14) Cooperation on mine clearance; (15) Tourism cooperation; (16) Sister city/sister city cooperation at the provincial level; (17) Expansion of people-to-people cooperation and cultural exchange; (18) Cooperation mechanisms at the local, sub-district and border agency levels; and (19) Other matters.
Title: Outcome of the 57th ASEAN Foreign Ministers' Meeting (AMM) and related ministerial meetings
The cabinet acknowledged the outcome of the 57th ASEAN Foreign Ministers' Meeting (AMM) and related ministerial meetings, and assigned concerned agencies to proceed accordingly. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
Minister of Foreign Affairs attended the 57th ASEAN Foreign Ministers' Meeting (AMM) and related ministerial meetings, totaling 17 meetings, during July 24-27, 2024 in Vientiane, Lao PDR.
At the meeting, ASEAN member states agreed to jointly promote cooperation on issues of mutual interest to the region. Dialogue partners and external parties have also stressed the importance of multilateralism on the basis of regional rules.
The issues Thailand has pushed forward include promoting inclusive dialogue to build trust among countries in the region; increasing digital connectivity through the development of the digital economy to support ASEAN to become the world's 4th largest economy by 2030; promoting sustainability agenda and green transition; promoting cooperation to fight against transnational crimes; and promoting cooperation with dialogue partners in areas where each dialogue partner has expertise.
The meeting also discussed the Myanmar situation and the Middle East situation.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/89656