รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM: Thailand ready for becoming OECD member


วันอาทิตย์ที่ 13 เมษายน 2568
13/04/2568
พิมพ์
PM: Thailand ready for becoming OECD member
PM: Thailand ready for becoming OECD member
April 9, 2025, at 1830hrs, Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed that Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra delivered speech via a recorded videoconference at the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Legal Policy Committee meeting, held in Paris, Republic of France under the topic “The importance of Legal Development”, to reaffirm Thailand's position and commitment in entering OECD accession process and becoming an OECD member. The Prime Minister also expressed support on the launch of “OECD Regulatory Policy Outlook”. Gist of her speech is as follows:
The Prime Minister was very pleased to be part of the launch of “OECD Regulatory Policy Outlook”, and commended OECD for its leading role in promoting good regulatory practice as a driving force for economic growth, innovation, and sustainable development across the globe. Thailand acknowledges OECD’s good practice as guideline for policy adjustment in accordance with the international standard to ensure that the country’s regulatory environment fosters innovation, attracts investment, and benefits the Thai people, as well as helps the country prepare for global challenges and promotes Thailand's role in the Asia-Pacific region.
The Prime Minister reiterated Thailand’s commitment to follow regulatory policy development according to OECD’s 2012 Recommendation of the Council on Regulatory Policy and Governance, and to deepen cooperation with OECD. Becoming OECD member will promote exchange of knowledge and expertise between Thailand and other member states, help improve the country’s policy, and address challenges in an effective manner. It will also send a signal to the international community on Thailand’s commitment to promoting good governance, economic reform, and sustainable growth.
According to the Prime Minister, the OECD Regulatory Policy Outlook, which provides global perspective of and trends in regulatory practices, policy, and governance for further improved and better regulations, serves as a benchmark and roadmap for Thailand’s policy development and recommendations to enhance the country’s competitiveness. With an increase in global interconnectedness and interdependence, regulatory consistency is essential for trade, investment and economic stability. The report offers tools and knowledge for the development of resilient and forward-looking economy.
In closing, the Prime Minister reaffirmed Thailand’s commitment to adhering to the Regulatory Excellence and international cooperation. The launch of OECD Regulatory Policy Outlook will be a good opportunity to review the country's progress and targets, and exchange knowledge with member states. The Prime Minister thanked the OECD and its partners for the report which Thailand intends to use as reference in driving the country’s development agendas, and for its leading role in promoting good regulatory practices that will drive prosperity, equity and sustainability for all

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/95404