รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand Trade Representative Umesh visits Vietnam to help expand Thai fruit, processed food market and shore up investor’s confidence 


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 27 มีนาคม 2568
Thailand Trade Representative Umesh visits Vietnam to help expand Thai fruit, processed food market and shore up investor’s confidence
Thailand Trade Representative Umesh visits Vietnam to help expand Thai fruit, processed food market and shore up investor’s confidence
Umesh Pandey, the Thailand Trade Representative looking after the ASEAN region, held meeting with businesses in Vietnam to help promote Thai products and agricultural produce while committing to continue pushing for achieving the US$25 billion two-way trade value.
Umesh, during his visit to Ho Chi Minh city and Hanoi, held discussions with businesses to help promote Thai products in Vietnam, where products made in Thailand are considered to be of higher quality.
In his opening remarks at the ‘Mini Thailand Week’, organized by the Office of International Trade Promotion in Hai Phong, Umesh said thanked the Vietnamese people for having the faith in the quality of goods produced in Thailand and pledged to boost trade further.
Umesh pledged that the two-way trade between Thailand and Vietnam should reach the target of US$25 billion, over the next few years and hopefully by 2026 when Thailand and Vietnam celebrate their 50th anniversary of diplomatic relations. In 2024 the two-way trade between Thailand and Vietnam stood just over US$20 billion.
During the various meetings with businesses, Umesh sought to look at ways to raise the export of Thai fruits and other processed food in Vietnam, where the perception of products made in Thailand remains very positive.
Vietnam is a country with young population and with the growth in the economy the spending power of the consumers ae on the rise. This is positive for Thai fruits, processed food and consumer goods.
MM Mega Market, a major retail and wholesale store in Vietnam, has said that it was ready to support and purchase more fruits, dried fruits, and fruit products such as fruit juice from Thailand to support Thailand.
During his visit, Umesh asked Thai retailers such as MM Mega Market (a unit of Berli Jucker Plc) and Central Retail Vietnam (a unit of Central Retail Corp Plc), to help promote more Thai products, especially Thai fruits that are well liked by the consumers in Vietnam.
Umesh also visited various Thai based companies that have invested in Vietnam in various sectors such as renewal energy (Banpu Plc, Gunkul Engineering Plc, Gulf Energy Development Plc, Super Energy Plc), industrial estate (Amata Corporation Plc and WHA Corporation Plc) and Thailand’s leading investor in Vietnam Siam Cement Group Plc.
Umesh listened to the various issues raised by these investors and has assured them to help out in sorting out some of the problems that these companies are facing in running their businesses.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/94768