รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on March 11, 2025


วันจันทร์ที่ 24 มีนาคม 2568
24/03/2568
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on March 11, 2025
The cabinet met on March 11, 2025
Title: Draft Act on Expropriation of Immovable Properties for Electric Train Construction Project (Metropolitan Rapid Transit Nakkhara Phiphat Line) in the area of Bangkok’s Wangthonglang, Bangkapi, Suan Luang, Prawet, and Bangnan districts, and Samut Prakarn’s Bang Phli and Muang districts, B.E. ....
The cabinet approved the draft Act on Expropriation of Immovable Properties for Electric Train Construction Project (Metropolitan Rapid Transit Nakkhara Phiphat Line) in the area of Bangkok’s Wangthonglang, Bangkapi, Suan Luang, Prawet, and Bangnan districts, and Samut Prakarn’s Bang Phli and Muang districts, B.E. ...., as proposed by Ministry of Transport which has been deliberated by Office of Council of State
Gist
The draft Act has previously been approved in principle by the cabinet, but this is to change the title from “Metropolitan Rapid Transit Yellow Line: Lad Prao – Samrong” to “Metropolitan Rapid Transit Nakkhara Phiphat Line” as graciously named by His Majesty the King.
The draft Act prescribes expropriation of immovable properties in the area of Bangkok’s Wangthonglang, Bangkapi, Suan Luang, Prawet, and Bangnan districts, and Samut Prakarn’s Bang Phli and Muang districts, B.E. ...., in accordance with Section 28 of the Expropriation and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, B.E. 2562 (2019).
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for hot-rolled steel sheet piles, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for hot-rolled steel sheet piles, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for hot-rolled steel sheet piles, B.E. …, prescribes revocation of Thai Industrial Standard for hot-rolled steel sheet piles under TIS 1390 – 2560 and determines new Thai Industrial Standard for hot-rolled steel sheet piles under TIS 1390 – 2566. This is to be in accordance with the referenced documents which have been revised and updated. The draft Ministerial Regulation shall take effect 180 days after being announced in the Royal Gazette.
Title: Request for approval to extend implementation period of 4 large-scale irrigation projects
The cabinet approved extension of the implementation period of 4 large-scale irrigation projects under the earlier approved budget frameworks. This is as proposed by Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives.
Projects
Fiscal Years (B.E.) From
Fiscal Years (ฺB.E.) To
(1) Sri Songrak Floodgate
Project Under the Royal
Initiative (Chiang Khan District,
Loei Province)
2561-2566 (6 Years)
2561-2570 (10 Years)
(2) Nakhon Si Thammarat
Flood Mitigation Project Under
the Royal Initiative (Nakhon Si
Thammarat Province)
2561-2566 (6 Years)
2561-2570 (10 Years)
(3) Ban Ko Floodgate Project
with Water Distribution System
(Sakon Nakhon Province)
2562-2566 (5 Years)
2562-2570 (9 Years)
(4) Lam Nam Phung – Nam
Kam Floodgate Project under
the Royal Initiative (Sakon
Nakhon Province)
2562-2566 (5 Years)
2562-2570 (9 Years)
Gist
Implementation of these projects have faced problems and obstacles mainly due to the outbreak of Covid-19, causing shortage of construction materials and machinery, and labor; and the delay in land acquisition, among others.
Title: Implementation of measures to mitigate public’s burden on electricity cost
The cabinet approved in principle the implementation of measures to mitigate public’s burden on electricity cost, as proposed by Ministry of Energy, and assigned the Ministry and concerned agencies to proceed according to related laws and regulatons.
Gist
Ministry of Energy requested an extension of measures to mitigate public’s burden on electricity cost, which has been executed since September 2024 and ended in December the same year. The extension is approved for the period of January - April 2025. The measure is aimed to mitigate impacts toward the public, especially the vulnerabilities, from energy price surge by providing discounts on the Ft charge for residential electricity users who consume no more than 300 units per month for four months. It is expected that electricity cost burden of approximately 21.30 million
people will be alleviated. Revenue lost from this measure is estimated at 1,700 million Baht (approximately 425 million Baht per month).
Title: Agreement between the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Government of Republic of Slovenia on short-term stay visa exemption for holders of diplomatic and official passports
The cabinet approved the draft Agreement between the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Government of Republic of Slovenia on short-term stay visa exemption for holders of diplomatic and official passports. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against the principle approved by the cabinet, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Foreign Affairs or a representative is authorized as signatory of the Agreement. Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall issue the Full Powers to the signatory. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
The Agreement between Thailand and Slovenia prescribes visa exemption for holders of diplomatic and official passports for entry, exit, transit and stay in the territory of the other Party for a period not exceeding 90 days within a period of 180 days from the date of entry, provided that such persons do not accept any employment in the territory of the other Party.
Title: Request for approval of Thailand's position for 7th Singapore-Thailand Enhanced Economic Relationship (STEER) Ministerial Meeting (MM)
The cabinet approved Thailand's position for 7th Singapore-Thailand Enhanced Economic Relationship (STEER) Ministerial Meeting (MM), as proposed by Ministry of Commerce.
Gist
The 7th STEER is scheduled on March 14, 2025 in Singapore. It is a trade ministerial mechanism aiming to forge cooperation and discuss policy issues on economic relations and cooperation, and trade and investment that will mutually beneficial to both countries. The 7th STEER will be co-chaired by Thai Minister of Commerce and Singaporean Minister of Manpower and Second Minister of Trade and Industry (H.E. Dr. Tan See Leng).

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/94653