รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM’s keynote remarks at “Microsoft Build AI Day Event”


วันพุธที่ 1 พฤษภาคม 2567
01/05/2567
พิมพ์
PM’s keynote remarks at “Microsoft Build AI Day Event”
PM’s keynote remarks at “Microsoft Build AI Day Event”
May 1, 2024, at 0940hrs, at the Plenary Hall 3, Queen Sirikit National Convention Center, Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin delivered keynote remarks at the “Microsoft Build AI Day Event”. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of the remarks as follows:
According to the Prime Minister, today, no one can deny that AI is one of the most transformative forces being witnessed in this decade. AI has changed many aspects in lives, workplace, and how to do business today. The Prime Minister also affirmed Thailand’s readiness for AI, and that his Government would fully support the growth of AI industry.
The country’s digital infrastructure is ready for the future. Thailand is among the countries with the strongest internet and digital infrastructure in the region, including most comprehensive broadband internet, mobile connectivity, 5G infrastructure, and international submarine cable network.
The “IGNITE THAILAND” vision, launched earlier in February, demonstrated the Government’s commitment and clear path to transform Thailand into a regional hub in 8 key industries. This includes digital economy, tourism, wellness and medical, food, aviation, future automotive, and finance. An important part of this vision is to turn Thailand into the Digital Economy Hub of the region and the world. This vision involves attracting high-tech industries of the future, and also nurturing a secure digital ecosystem, including infrastructure providers and developers.
Since taking office last September, the Government has implemented several key policies, both short-term and long-term, to strengthen Thailand’s competitiveness and enhance the country’s global stature. At the national level, the second phase of the national AI strategy and action plan for the period of 2024 – 2027 are being pushed forward. This is to further harness the power of AI and cloud computing in the country by implementing projects to strengthen AI ecosystem.
Thailand’s Board of Investment has placed digital industry among the strategic industries for investment promotion. This encompasses a comprehensive investment incentive package, crafted specifically to help foster digital-related activities and spanning across all digital industry. In addition, the Government is working tirelessly on the green energy transition. Thailand realized first-hand the need of businesses for renewable energy to achieve their net-zero targets. It is the Government’s priority to achieve global climate change commitments, both on carbon neutrality and net zero, as well as the policy to have 50 percent of energy production be renewable by 2040.
The Thai Government also commits to provide more than 9 gigawatts of new green energy capacity through the Utility Green Tariff system by 2030. This will ensure that any business looking to invest in Thailand, will have easy and affordable access to clean energy. The
Government will also be working closely with leading digital companies like Microsoft, to create a sustainability sandbox aimed at fostering environmental innovations.
The Prime Minister was delighted to learn that Thailand’s commitment to propel the nation into a new chapter aligns with Microsoft’s own vision. Last November, the Thai Government and Microsoft signed an MoU to pursue a vision of a Cloud-first, AI-powered Thailand. This partnership will strengthen the country’s economic competitiveness, and enhance digital capability. This MoU is an expression of commitment and promise from both sides to pursue this goal in Thailand together.
The Prime Minister was also pleased to learn that Microsoft will participate in the effort to develop human resources, and help increase access to education and opportunities, for local communities nationwide since digital innovation and sustainability require human capital as the key driver.
In closing, the Prime Minister expressed confidence that this collaboration between the Thai Government and Microsoft will lead to a brighter future together, and emphasized that the Government is fully committed to making Thailand a perfect destination for the digital industry. Thailand is ready to listen to their thoughts, understand their needs, and come up with solutions that will help grow their businesses in Thailand.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/82421