รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Govt to accelerate water transport infrastructure development projects


วันจันทร์ที่ 20 กุมภาพันธ์ 2566
​Govt to accelerate water transport infrastructure development projects
​Govt to accelerate water transport infrastructure development projects
February 20, 2023, Deputy Government Spokesperson Traisuree Taisaranakul disclosed that the Government has placed great priority on transport network development to enhance national competitiveness and promote international trade, tourism, and people’s traveling. Thailand’s ongoing investment in transport has contributed to the country’s rank in World Bank’s Logistic Performance Index (LPI), which is at 32nd, up from 45th in 2016, out of 167 countries across the world.
The Government has invested in a number of mega projects in water transport infrastructure development, which include Map Ta Phut Port Development Phase 3 (PPP net cost scheme, worth 64 billion Baht) in the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC). The project is aimed to increase annual shipment of natural gas and liquid cargoes for petrochemical industry, and is planned for 2 stages. Tender invitation for private investment will be undertaken during stage 2.
Also part of the EEC, Laem Chabang Port Development Phase 3 (PPP net cost scheme, worth 114 billion Baht) is aimed to enhance the country’s import and export capacity. Once completed, the Port will have a container throughput capacity of up to 18.10 million TEUs (from 11.10 million TEUs) per year. BKP (Bangkok Port) West Container Terminal will also be developed as an automated container terminal. Additionally, the operation of RoRo ferry, route Sattahip - Ko Samui, will promote tourism activities, and provide an alternative mode of travel from Eastern to Southern Thailand.
With regard to waterway transport in Bangkok and vicinity, Marine Department has a plan to renovate and develop 29 passenger piers on the Chao Phraya River to enhance public convenience and safety. Some will be developed into smart piers with seamless connectivity with other modes of transport . As of the end of 2022, renovation of 8 passenger piers has completed, namely, Sathon, Memorial Bridge (Saphan Phut), Tha Chang, Nonthaburi, Phayap, the Marine Department, Rajinee, and Bang Pho. Renovation of 3 others piers, that is, Rama VII Pier, Tha Tian Pier, and Kiakkai Pier will take place this year. The Government also places importance on environmentally-friendly water transport system, and has introduced electric-powered boat services for marine/river/canal transport. As of 2022, there are 51 boats in service, and the number will increase to 69 by the end of this year.
According to the Deputy Government Spokesperson, in 2023, the Government continues to initiate new water transport infrastructure development projects, such as a master plan for marina development for both Andaman and the Gulf of Thailand, a feasibility study on establishment of national shipping line, development of dry port in Chachoengsao, Khon Kaen, Nakhon Ratchasima, and Nakhon Sawan, and tangible development of land bridge which will connect Chumphon on the eastern coast of the Gulf of Thailand to Ranong on the Andaman Sea.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/65217