รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Indonesian President to pay official visit to Thailand


วันศุกร์ที่ 16 พฤษภาคม 2568
16/05/2568
พิมพ์
Indonesian President to pay official visit to Thailand
Indonesian President to pay official visit to Thailand
May 16, 2025, Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed that H.E. Mr. Prabowo Subianto, President of the Republic of Indonesia, is scheduled to pay an official visit to Thailand, as invited by Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra, on May 19, 2025. This will be the first official visit to Thailand of an Indonesian President in 20 years.
The Indonesian President will attend an official welcoming ceremony at the Government House, followed by a plenary meeting, witnessing the signing ceremony of agreements and MOU between Thai and Indonesian agencies, and the joint press conference. The Prime Minister will later host a luncheon in honor of President Subianto and the delegation.
During the visit, both leaders will announce an elevation of relations to strategic partnership, coinciding with the 75th anniversary of diplomatic relations between Thailand and Indonesia this year. The Thai Prime Minister and the Indonesian President will have a bilateral discussion to exchange views on wide ranging topics in a bid to strengthen relations and cooperation between the two countries, especially security cooperation, trade and investment, food security, tourism, education, people-to-people relations, and regional cooperation.
According to the Government Spokesperson, this will be the first official visit to Thailand of President Subianto since his assumption of the position in October 2024, and the first official visit to Thailand of an Indonesian President in 20 years. The plenary meeting will be carried out in the form of Leaders’ Consultation, as initiated by the Thai side to promote regular meetings of national leaders and expediting cooperation in various areas in a tangible manner.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/96442