รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on February 6, 2024 


วันจันทร์ที่ 12 กุมภาพันธ์ 2567
12/02/2567
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on February 6, 2024
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Nakhon Ratchasima province (Chaleom Prakiat district’s Nong Ngu Leum subdistrict and Non Sung district’s Mai, and Tanode subdistricts), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Nakhon Ratchasima province (Chaleom Prakiat district’s Nong Ngu Leum subdistrict and Non Sung district’s Mai, and Tanode subdistricts), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Transport. Ministry of Transport shall take comments of Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, Official of Council of State, and Office of National Economic and Social Development Council into consideration.
Gist
The Royal Decree prescribes areas in Nakhon Ratchasima province (Chaleom Prakiat district’s Nong Ngu Leum subdistrict and Non Sung district’s Mai, and Tanode subdistricts) to be expropriated for construction of National Highway #290 (part of Muang Nakhon Ratchasima Ring Road). Land survey and appropriation shall commence within 180 days after the Royal Decree is in effect.
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Nakhon Sawan province (Ta Khli district’s Hua Wai subdistrict), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Nakhon Sawan province (Ta Khli district’s Hua Wai subdistrict), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Transport. Ministry of Transport shall take comments of Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, Official of Council of State, and Office of National Economic and Social Development Council into consideration.
Gist
The Royal Decree prescribes areas in Nakhon Sawan province (Ta Khli district’s Hua Wai subdistrict) to be expropriated for construction of National Highway #3329 (part of Ta Khli – Nong Luang route). Land survey and appropriation shall commence within 180 days after the Royal Decree is in effect.
Title: Report on the Industrial Economics Status for November 2023
The cabinet acknowledged Industrial Economic Report for November 2023, as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
Based on the report, manufacturing production index (MPI) contracted by 4.7% YOY due to an increase of household debts and high interest rates which have resulted in reduction of domestic consumption of semi-durable and durable goods, such as automobiles, concrete products, cement, etc. Economic recession of key trade partners (i.e., China, Japan, EU) also resulted in export reduction of electronics parts and circuits and air conditioners.
Key industries that contributed to the contraction were automobiles (-14.13%), electronics parts and circuits (-16.38%), and basic iron and steel (-14.19%)
Key industries that have expanded well in November 2023 were refined petroleum products (+29.91%), and jewelries (+12.91%).
Title: Visa exemption for holders of diplomatic and official passports of Lithuania
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Foreign Affairs:
Approved the draft Agreement on visa exemption for holders of diplomatic and official passports between Governments of the Kingdom of Thailand and the Republic of Lithuania. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
Approved Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Parnpree Bahiddha-nukara or a representative as signatory of the Agreement. Ministry of Foreign Affairs is to issue the Full Powers to the signatory.
The signing ceremony will take place at the 4th Thailand – Lithuania Political Consultation to be held in Bangkok during the first half of 2024). The draft Agreement is aimed to promote interaction and exchange of visits between the Thai and Lithuanian public agencies, and to promote bilateral relations between the two countries.
Title: Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in disaster risk reduction and emergency response between Thailand and Cambodia
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Interior’s Department of Disaster Prevention and Mitigation:
Approved the draft Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in disaster risk reduction and emergency response between Thailand and Cambodia. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Interior may proceed, and inform the cabinet later of the amendment.
Approved Minister of Interior as signatory of the draft MOU.
Gist
The draft Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in disaster risk reduction and emergency response between Thailand and Cambodia is aimed to promote technical exchange between the two countries, be it, exchange of disaster warning information, application of information technology and modern devices, establishment of liaison and communication mechanism, emergency response drills, exchange of visits, etc.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/78792