รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM: Govt commits to empowering all citizens, regardless of age, gender, religion, nationality, or social status


วันจันทร์ที่ 12 กุมภาพันธ์ 2567
12/02/2567
พิมพ์
PM: Govt commits to empowering all citizens, regardless of age, gender, religion, nationality, or social status
PM: Govt commits to empowering all citizens, regardless of age, gender, religion, nationality, or social status
February 12, 2024, at 0930hrs, at Samyan Mitrtown Hall, Samyan Mitrtown, Bangkok, Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Srettha Thavisin presided over the opening of the Conference on “Business, Gender Diversity and the Path Ahead” where he also gave the opening remarks. Government Spokesperson Chai Wacharonke disclosed gist of the Prime Minister’s remarks as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed pleasure to join with stakeholders from various sectors in this forum on “Business, Gender Diversity and the Path Ahead”, which serves as a testament to the Thai society’s shared commitment to building a nation where inclusivity and equality are tangible guiding principles for progress. The Government remains committed and dedicated to the empowerment of all citizens, regardless of age, gender, religion, nationality, or social status, as stated during the 75th Anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) in December last year. This is to ensure that no one is left behind in the country’s journey towards a more equal and prosperous society, as gender equality is not just a noble pursuit, but the fundamental human rights which forms the cornerstone of Thailand’s social policy.
The Government takes pride in advocating for same-sex marriage law under the Gender Equality Act. This monumental step reflects commitment to recognize and uphold the rights of every individual, and to build a society that embraces diversity, and provides equal opportunities for all. It is also resolute in its support for all involved in gender equality related activities, both locally and internationally. The Prime Minister emphasized that the Government recognizes the importance of collective efforts in creating a comprehensive framework that addresses gender-related challenges and promotes sustainable and inclusive development in Thailand. It is also essential to consider additional facets of gender diversity. Education, workplace and healthcare inclusivity and accessibility are key areas where the Thai Government is actively working to create an environment that nurtures diversity for all.
In closing, the Prime Minister invited all participants to actively and constructively engage in today's discussions -- sharing insights, experiences and solutions. Their contributions would undoubtedly shape the trajectory of gender diversity in the Thai society, fostering an environment where everyone has the chance to thrive.
The Conference on “Business, Gender Diversity and the Path Ahead” was held to promote awareness and seek to find solutions in establishing laws, regulations, and policies regarding gender diversity in Thailand and in other countries. At the conference, public, private, education, and civil society sectors have collaborated to brainstorm and foster practices that are in line with the Government’s policies and strategies. An exhibition has also been set up to present gender diversity related works and practices to the public.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/78786