รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Debriefing PM’s field visit to Maha Sarakham and Roi-Et provinces


วันพุธที่ 8 พฤษภาคม 2567
08/05/2567
พิมพ์
Debriefing PM’s field visit to Maha Sarakham and Roi-Et provinces
Debriefing PM’s field visit to Maha Sarakham and Roi-Et provinces
May 6, 2024, at 1309hrs, at Phon Thong Hospital, Sa Nok Kaew subdistrict, Phon Thong district, Roi-Et province, Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin gave an interview about his field visit to Maha Sarakham and Roi-Et provinces during May 5-6 that he took the opportunity to follow up on solutions to people’s plight in all dimensions, i.e., drought, flood, and road expansion. He specifically mentioned narcotics, which has become a serious problem in the Northeast. Today the Prime Minister was accompanied by Secretary-General of the Narcotics Control Board, and Minister of Public Health, and hoped to see tangible accomplishments within 90 days from now, whether it be asset confiscation, setting of regulation specifying the maximum amounts of narcotics that will be considered for personal use if found, and tightening of law enforcement. Informal debt is another issue that needs to be urgently addressed. The Prime Minister has already instructed relevant agencies to look into the matter.
On the question about the promotion of Thung Kula Rong-Hai jasmine rice globally, the Prime Minister showed the press a bag of rice gifted by local farmers, and affirmed the Government’s intent to push forward value adding to all the Thai agro products. According to the Prime Minister, global demand for Thung Kula Rong-Hai jasmine rice is very high. However, Jasmine rice yield per rai is normally lower than that of other rice varieties. Therefore, Thung Kula Rong-Hai jasmine rice needs to be further developed to enhance quality of rice variety and increase yeild per rai. In terms of production cost, if farmers could produce Jasmine rice variety with a yield of at least 650kg per rai, rice prices will naturally increase. The Prime Minister also emphasized the importance of water management.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/82732