รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on June 18, 2024. 


วันอังคารที่ 25 มิถุนายน 2567
25/06/2567
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on June 18, 2024.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Udon Thani province (Muang UdonThani district’s Nong Bua, Nong Na Kham, Nong Khon Kwang, Ban Jun, and Non Sung subdistricts), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Udon Thani province (Muang UdonThani district’s Nong Bua, Nong Na Kham, Nong Khon Kwang, Ban Jun, and Non Sung subdistricts), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Transport. Ministry of Transport shall take comments of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, Office of Council of State, and Official of Council of State into consideration.
Gist
The Royal Decree prescribes areas in Udon Thani province (Muang UdonThani district’s Nong Bua, Nong Na Kham, Nong Khon Kwang, Ban Jun, and Non Sung subdistricts) to be expropriated for construction and expansion of a local road (routes Kor. 7, Ngor. 8, and Jor.) and linkage roads according to Udon Thani City Plan.
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Roi-Et province (Muang Roi-Et district’s Nua Muang and Dong Lan subdistricts), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Roi-Et province (Muang Roi-Et district’s Nua Muang and Dong Lan subdistricts), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Transport. Ministry of Transport shall take comments of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, Office of Council of State, and Official of Council of State into consideration.
Gist
The Royal Decree prescribes areas in Roi-Et province (Muang Roi-Et district’s Nua Muang and Dong Lan subdistricts) to be expropriated for construction of Highway No. 23 (Ban Phai – Ubon Ratchathani) crossing Highway No. 232 (Muang Roi-Et Ring Road) for the total distance of 0.447 km.
Title: Proposals for provincial plans/projects as a result of Prime Minister’s visit (Nakhon Phanom, Nakhon Ratchasima, and Nakhon Si Thammarat provinces)
The cabinet approved in principles 9 provincial projects under the budget of 272,718,200 baht for 3 projects for Nakhon Phanom province (108,193,200 baht), 5 projects for Nakhon Ratchasima province (134,525,000 baht), and 1 project for Nakhon Si Thammarat province (30,000,000 baht). The budgets will be allocated from FY2024 central budget for contingency.
Gist
The Prime Minister made field visits to Nakhon Phanom, Nakhon Ratchasima, and Nakhon Si Thammarat on February 17, March 24, and April 8, 2024, respectively, and ordered each province to come up with provincial development plans and proposed to the cabinet. Projects that have been approved by the Joint Government-Private Sector Committee before being proposed to the cabinet are:
3 projects for Nakhon Phanom province:
City identity (DNA) creation and marketing project under the 5 Must (Visit, Eat, Shop, Mu, Rest) to promote tourism
Promotion and development of President Ho Chi Minh Memorial as tourist attraction
Electrical water pumping station construction project in Ban Na Khamin, Na Khamin Subdistrict, Phon Sawan District, Nakhon Phanom Province
5 projects for Nakhon Ratchasima province:
Reinforced concrete bridge across Khlong Phak Khom Construction project in Phan Dung Subdistrict, Kham Thale So District
Reinforced concrete bridge construction project in Ban Thonglang, Nai Mueang-Ban Hua Tham Nob and Samrit Subdistricts, Phimai District
Reinforced concrete bridge construction project in Thung Sawang Subdistrict, Prathai District
Reinforced concrete bridge across the Sakae Canal construction project in Ban Nong Rang, Chae Subdistrict, Khon Buri District
Medical and public health service system development and increase of operational efficiency project (medical equipment)
1 project for Nakhon Si Thammarat province
Road repair project for N.S. 4073 route (Highway Intersection No. 4014- Nai Phlao Beach) in Khanom District and Sichon District
Title: 19th Asia Cooperation Dialogue Ministerial Meeting
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Foreign Affairs:
Approved: 1) Tehran Declaration; 2) draft Guiding Principles on the Functioning of the ACD Secretariat; and 3) draft Rules of Procedure of the ACD. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
Authorized Minister of Foreign Affairs or a representative to adopt the 3 outcome documents at the 19th Asia Cooperation Dialogue Ministerial Meeting
The 19th Asia Cooperation Dialogue Ministerial Meeting will be held on June 24, 2024 in Tehran, the Islamic Republic of Iran. The meeting will be attended by Ministers of Foreign Affairs or representatives of 35 member states.
The Tehran Declaration under the theme: “Towards an Asian Community through Enhanced ACD” is aimed to demonstrate ministerial political intent of ACD member states to promote cooperation within the ACD framework, and to push forward implementation under the ACD Blueprint (2021-2031).

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/84915