รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on May 13, 2025


วันพฤหัสบดีที่ 22 พฤษภาคม 2568
22/05/2568
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on May 13, 2025
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Finance Ministerial Regulation on the Production of Liquor (No…), B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Finance Ministerial Regulation on the Production of Liquor (No…), B.E. … to enhance competitiveness of SME liquor producers. This is as proposed by Ministry of Finance.
Gist
Draft Finance Ministerial Regulation on the Production of Liquor (No…), B.E. … to enhance competitiveness of SME liquor producers is as part of the Government’s policy to promote soft power through building up on traditional industries.
The draft Ministerial Regulation prescribes revision of licensing criteria regarding applicant eligibility, location of factories, and the definition of onsite brewed and sold beer establishments.
Title: Issuance of Government Token (G-Token)
The cabinet approved the issuance of Government Token (G-Token) in accordance with Section 10 of the Public Debt Management Act, B.E. 2548, and approved in principle the draft Finance Ministerial Regulation prescribing criteria and conditions for the issuance of Government Token (G-Token), B.E. …. This is as proposed by Ministry of Finance.
Gist
The issuance of Government Token (G-Token) aims to create public opportunities in getting access to quality investments. The G-Token is a new tool for the Government’s loan raising, adopting fintech to provide an alternative for the public’s bond investment. The issuance of G-Token is also part of the Government’s effort to promote the development of digital economy and elevate Thailand to become a digital society.
Title: Joint Statement on Elevation of Relations to Comprehensive Strategic Partnership between Kingdom of Thailand and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam
The cabinet approved the Joint Statement on Elevation of Relations to Comprehensive Strategic Partnership between Kingdom of Thailand and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
The draft Joint Statement on Elevation of Relations to Comprehensive Strategic Partnership between Kingdom of Thailand and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam demonstrates joint intent of the two countries to enhance cooperation in three pillars: (1) Partnership for Sustainable Peace, i.e., enhancing cooperation in politics, national defense, and security; (2) Partnership for Sustainable Growth, i.e., enhancing cooperation in the economy; and (3) Partnership for a Sustainable Future, i.e., promoting cooperation in science, technology and innovation. The joint statement will be adopted during the Prime Minister's official visit to Vietnam on May 15-16, 2025.
Title: Draft MOU between Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam and Ministry of Commerce of the Kingdom of Thailand on Economic and Trade Cooperation (Revised)
The cabinet approved the draft MOU between Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam and Ministry of Commerce of the Kingdom of Thailand on Economic and Trade Cooperation (Revised), as proposed by Ministry of Commerce.
Gist
The draft MOU between Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam and Ministry of Commerce of the Kingdom of Thailand on Economic and Trade Cooperation (Revised) is a revision to some provisions of the current MOU in line with the current context. The revision is made on the change of Vietnamese agency responsible for bilateral trade cooperation with Thailand; the target year of the ASEAN Community Vision from 2025 to 2045; and rephrasing of content to reflect the elevation of bilateral relations to a comprehensive strategic partnership in 2025. The draft MOU will be signed on May 15-16, 2025 in Vietnam.
Title: Joint Statement of the First Leaders' Consultation on Elevation of Bilateral Relations between the Kingdom of Thailand and the Republic of Indonesia to Strategic Partnership
The cabinet approved the draft Joint Statement of the First Leaders' Consultation on Elevation of Bilateral Relations between the Kingdom of Thailand and the Republic of Indonesia to Strategic Partnership, as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
The draft Joint Statement of the First Leaders' Consultation on Elevation of Bilateral Relations between the Kingdom of Thailand and the Republic of Indonesia to Strategic Partnership prescribes joint intent of the two countries to elevate bilateral relations to a strategic partnership, and follow up on cooperation progress in key areas, including (1) politics and security, (2) economy, (3) social and cultural, and (4) cooperation within multilateral frameworks, especially within ASEAN, and other multilateral forums, such as BRICS and the United Nations, to jointly address regional and global challenges. The joint statement will be adopted during the official visit to Thailand of the President of Indonesia on May 19, 2025.
Title: Memorandum of Understanding between Ministry of Health of the Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Health of the Republic of Indonesia on Public Health Cooperation
The cabinet approved the draft Memorandum of Understanding between Ministry of Health of the Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Health of the Republic of Indonesia on Public Health Cooperation, as proposed by Ministry of Public Health.
Gist
The draft Memorandum of Understanding between Ministry of Health of the Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Health of the Republic of Indonesia on Public Health Cooperation is aimed at promoting public health relations and cooperation in various fields, such as strengthening the health system and primary health care system, prevention and control of communicable diseases, security of medicines and medical equipment, health finance, and medical tourism, etc. The draft Memorandum of Understanding will be signed on May 19 May 2025 in Thailand.
Title: Draft MOU between Ministry of Public Health of the Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Public Health of the Republic of Maldives
The cabinet approved the draft between Ministry of Public Health of the Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Public Health of the Republic of Maldives. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Public Health may exercise judgment on the matter without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Public Health or a representative is authorized as signatory of the MOU.
Gist
The draft MOU between Ministry of Public Health of the Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Public Health of the Republic of Maldives identifies healthcare cooperation frameworks between the two countries. Areas of cooperation include strengthening primary healthcare in the Republic of Maldives, technical cooperation, information exchange, expert training, personnel training, seminars and workshops. The draft MOU is effective for a period of 3 years from the date of signing.
Title: Joint Statement for 7th APEC Education Ministerial Meeting (AEMM)
The cabinet approved the draft Joint Statement for 7th APEC Education Ministerial Meeting (AEMM). Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against the principle approved by the cabinet, Ministry of Education may may proceed and inform the cabinet later of the change. Minister of Education or a representative is authorized to adopt the joint statement at the 7th APEC Education Ministerial Meeting (AEMM) to be held on May 14, 2025 in the Republic of Korea.
Gist
The 7th APEC Education Ministerial Meeting (AEMM) will be held during May 13-15, 2025 under the Theme: “Bridging Educational Gaps and Promoting Inclusive Growth in the Era of Digital Transformation” to address educational gap through digital technology.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/96654