รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on November 22, 2022


วันจันทร์ที่ 28 พฤศจิกายน 2565
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on November 22, 2022
The cabinet met on November 22, 2022. Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title:  Draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for Doughnut Fryers and Deep Fat Fryers having a maximum quantity of oil exceeding 5 l, but not exceeding 12 l and Doughnut Fryers and Deep Fat Fryers including pressurized types with a pressure not exceeding 50 kPa and a pressure volume litres product not exceeding 200, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for Doughnut Fryers and Deep Fat Fryers having a maximum quantity of oil exceeding 5 l, but not exceeding 12 l and Doughnut Fryers and Deep Fat Fryers including pressurized types with a pressure not exceeding 50 kPa and a pressure volume litres product not exceeding 200, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for Doughnut Fryers and Deep Fat Fryers having a maximum quantity of oil exceeding 5 l, but not exceeding 12 l and Doughnut Fryers and Deep Fat Fryers including pressurized types with a pressure not exceeding 50 kPa and a pressure volume litres product not exceeding 200, B.E. …, prescribes Thai Industrial Standard for Doughnut Fryers and Deep Fat Fryers having a maximum quantity of oil exceeding 5 l, but not exceeding 12 l and Doughnut Fryers and Deep Fat Fryers including pressurized types with a pressure not exceeding 50 kPa and a pressure volume litres product not exceeding 200 to be in accordance with TIS 60335 (Book 2) (37)- B.E. 2564.
The draft Ministerial Regulation shall take effect 180 days after being announced in the Royal Gazette.
Title: Request for use of Government’s central fund for contingency and emergency for election of members of National Farmers Council and Provincial Farmers Council, Fiscal Year B.E. 2066
The cabinet approved the use of Government’s central fund for contingency and emergency, at the total amount of 540,714,700 Baht for the election of members of National Farmers Council and Provincial Farmers Council, Fiscal Year B.E. 2066, as proposed by National Farmers Council.
Title: Text for the Supplementary Document (Annex) to the Instrument for Strengthening the EANET
The cabinet approved the following proposals made by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment:
Approved Text for the Supplementary Document (Annex) to the Instrument for Strengthening the EANET
Approved the official consent letter, and authorized Director-General of the Pollution Control Department as signatory of the official consent letter
Assigned Ministry of Foreign Affairs to issue the Full Powers for the signatory
Should there be an amendment of the Approved Text for the Supplementary Document (Annex) to the Instrument for Strengthening the EANET in parts that are not gist nor against the law and national interest, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
EANET member countries (China, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, Mongolia, Philippines, South Korea, Russia, Vietnam, Thailand, Cambodia, Lao PDR, and Myanmar) shall report the approval of Text for the Supplementary Document (Annex) to the Instrument for Strengthening the EANET at the 24th Intergovernmental Meeting (IG24) held during November 24-25, 2022 in Manila, Republic of the Philippines.
Title: draft outcome document of the 22nd Indian Ocean Rim Association (IORA) Council of Ministers (COM) Meeting
The cabinet approved the draft outcome document of the 22nd Indian Ocean Rim Association (IORA) Council of Ministers (COM) Meeting, to be held on November 24, 2022 in Dhaka, Bangladesh. The document to be adopted at the 22nd IORA COM is the Dhaka Communique, of which the gist is as follows:
Acknowledged accomplishments made by various mechanisms under IORA that aim to promote post COVID-19 economic recovery and climate actions, i.e., 1) Indonesia’s drafting of Strategic Framework for Marine Debris Action in the Indian Ocean, and France’s development of the guideline to prevent importation of illegal fishing products into supply chains of IORA member countries; 2) signing of MOUs between IORA and other organizations to deepen cooperation in the areas of mutual interest. Partner organizations include Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI), International Seabed Authority (ISA), and the Indian Ocean Commission (IOC); and 3) Extension of the MOU between IORA and Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) S&T Center for another 3 years.
Acknowledged IORA Gender Pledge on International Women's Day 2022 which is aimed to promote gender equality, on par with the international standard, through making the best efforts to achieve and maintain an average of 40:40:20 women to men attendance ratio across all IORA meetings, activities and events by 2030
Accepted Saudi Arabia as IORA’s 11th dialogue partner
The Indian Ocean Rim Association (IORA), established in 1995, is an international organization consisting of 23 states bordering the Indian Ocean, namely, Australia, Bangladesh, Comoros, France, India, Indonesia, Iran, Kenya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mauritius, Mozambique, Oman, Seychelles, Singapore, Somalia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Tanzania, Thailand, United Arab Emirates, and Yemen, with 10 dialogue partners: China, Egypt, Germany, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Russia, Turkey, United Kingdom, and United States. IORA’s priority areas are: 1) Maritime Safety and Security; 2) Trade & Investment Facilitation; 3) Fisheries Management; 4) Disaster Risk Management; 5) Tourism and Cultural Exchanges; and 6) Academic, Science & Technology.
The Dhaka Communique is relevant with Thailand’s policy to promote post-COVID-19 economic recovery and interaction with IORA member countries and dialogue partners, which will contribute to the country’s endeavor for sustainable development in the areas of marine economic development, marine connectivity, sustainable fisheries, and women’s economic empowerment.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/62045