รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM commends accomplishment of researchers from Rajamanjala University of Technology Isan on production of 100% electric buses


วันจันทร์ที่ 28 พฤศจิกายน 2565
พิมพ์
PM commends accomplishment of researchers from Rajamanjala University of Technology Isan on production of 100% electric buses
PM commends accomplishment of researchers from Rajamanjala University of Technology Isan on production of 100% electric buses
November 27, 2022, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha marveled Thai researchers from Rajamanjala University of Technology Isan, Khon Kaen Campus for their work on the production of 100% electric buses.
This accomplishment is a collaboration between the University and Cho Thavee Public Company Limited. The research is funded by National Research Council of Thailand (NRCT). The bus can travel 250 kilometers on a single charge (2 hours) with the top speed of 120 kmph. It is a low floor bus which facilitates passengers’ accessibility, and uses both ultracapacitors and lithium batteries for energy storage.
According to the Government Spokesperson, the Government has placed great importance on the development of human capital, especially in innovative development. NRCT strives to provide funding and support to research works related to the 10 S-Curve industries, that is, the 5 “First S-Curve” to enhance current industries to continue the growth, and the 5 “New S-Curve” to develop future industries to achieve the leap growth of Thai economy. The 10 S-Curve industries include: 1. Next-Generation Automotive, 2. Smart Electronics, 3. Affluent, Medical and Wellness Tourism, 4. Agriculture and Biotechnology, and 5. Food for the Future for the First S-Curve, and: 1. Robotics, 2. Aviation and Logistics, 3. Digital, 4. Biofuels and Biochemical, and 5. Medical Hub for the New S-Curve.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/62047