รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thai delegation to visit deported Uyghurs in China’s Xinjiang to ensure their safety and wellbeing


วันจันทร์ที่ 17 มีนาคม 2568
17/03/2568
พิมพ์
Thai delegation to visit deported Uyghurs in China’s Xinjiang to ensure their safety and wellbeing
Thai delegation to visit deported Uyghurs in China’s Xinjiang to ensure their safety and wellbeing
March 16, 2025, Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed that the Thai delegation, comprising Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense Phumtham Wechayachai, Minister of Justice Pol. Col. Tawee Sodsong, secretary-general of the National Security Council (NSC) Chatchai Bangchuad, Deputy Commander of the Royal Thai Police Pol. Gen. Kraibun Suadsong, and himself, as well as a group of media representatives, is scheduled to visit Xinjiang, People’s Republic of China on March 18-20, 2025.
On March 18, the delegation will depart the Royal Thai Air Forces Airport (Wing 6) to arrive at Kashi Laining International Airport (former Kashgar Airport) in the morning of March 19. Upon arrival, the Thai delegation will visit the Uyghur community in Xinjiang’s Kashi prefecture and have lunch with local leaders.
On March 20, 2025, the delegation is scheduled to visit several places in Xinjiang, including Law Enforcement and Case Management Centre of the Public Security Bureau located in Kashi prefecture, and Id Kah Mosque to meet and have dinner with religious leader before leaving Xinjiang at around 2000hrs (local time) to arrive in Bangkok on 0100hrs of March 21.
According to the Government Spokesperson, this visit, following the repatriation of 45 Uyghur Chinese in February, is arranged in response to the concern of the global community on safety and wellbeing of the deported Uyghurs. The visit is expected to create better understanding on Thailand’s straightforward and transparent decision based on mutual agreement between Thailand and China that the returned Uyghurs be allowed to reunite with their families, reintegrate back into the society, and be given fair treatment, safety, and freedom.
The Royal Thai Government has placed great importance on the matter, and carefully considered all relevant evidence from every party involved for several months, taking into account the human rights principle and their safety, before resolving to send back these individuals.
This is the first visit of the Thai delegation to monitor conditions and safety of the returned Uyghurs. More follow-up visits will be arranged in a bid to build confidence of the global community on Thailand’s continued effort to resolving international conflicts.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/94439