รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on July 5, 2023.


วันศุกร์ที่ 7 กรกฎาคม 2566
The cabinet met on July 5, 2023.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on Renaming of  Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment’s Department of Environmental Quality Promotion to Department of Climate Change and Environment, B.E. …
The cabinet has made approval to the draft Royal Decree on Renaming of  Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment’s Department of Environmental Quality Promotion to Department of Climate Change and Environment, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment.
Gist
Under the Royal Decree, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment’s Department of Environmental Quality Promotion will be renamed as “Department of Climate Change and Environment (กรมการเปลี่ยนแปลงสภาพภูมิอากาศและสิ่งแวดล้อม)” to be in line with the restructuring of the Department’s mission as public agency responsible for climate change management.
With the worsening climate change situation, Thailand has to cope with ensuing economic, social and environmental problems. Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment has, therefore, reviewed and restructured agencies responsible for climate change to be in line with the changing economic, social and environmental contexts. As a result, the mission of Office of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy and Planning’s Division of Climate Change Management and Coordination will be integrated with that of the Department of Environmental Quality Promotion. Roles and authority of the Department of Environmental Quality Promotion will be revised accordingly, and the Department will subsequently be renamed as Department of Climate Change and Environment.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for Hot-Dip Zinc-Coated Cold-Reduced Flat Steel, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for Hot-Dip Zinc-Coated Cold-Reduced Flat Steel, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for Hot-Dip Zinc-Coated Cold-Reduced Flat Steel, B.E. …, prescribes Thai Industrial Standard for hot-dip zinc-coated cold-reduced flat steel under TIS 50-2565, to be in accordance with the Ministerial Announcement No. 6867 (B.E. 2565), issued under the Industrial Product Standards Act, B.E. 2511, on Withdrawal and Prescription of Thai Industrial Standard for hot-dip zinc-coated cold-reduced flat steel.
The draft Ministerial Regulation shall take effect 270 days after being announced in the Royal Gazette.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation issued under the Royal Decree on the Exchange of Information for International Agreements on Taxation B.E. 2566 (2023)
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation issued under the Royal Decree on the Exchange of Information for International Agreements on Taxation B.E. 2566 (2023), and ordered Ministry of Finance to notify Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) to ensure that the Multilateral Competent Authority Agreement on Automatic Exchange of Financial Account Information (MCAA CRS) will take effect once the Royal Decree and its subordinate laws are enforced.
Gist
Thailand has joined the Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information for Tax Purposes. In order to affirm its commitment to implement the automatic exchange of information according to the Common Reporting Standard (CRS), the Royal Decree on the Exchange of Information for International Agreements on Taxation B.E. 2566 (2023) has been enacted since March 31, 2023. Thailand also aims to put in place related subordinate laws by September 2023 in a bid to demonstrate the country’s transparency as ruled by the CRS and in accordance with MCAA CRS.
The Royal Decree on the Exchange of Information for International Agreements on Taxation B.E. 2566 prescribes Thailand’s compliance and implementation of CRS, and legal responsibilities for the financial institutions and penalties. Common Reporting Standard (CRS) is a global standard for annual exchange of information obtained by financial institutions between jurisdictions.
Title: Restructuring of Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment’s Department of Climate Change and Environment
The cabinet has made approval to the draft Royal Decree on Government Agency Division for Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment’s Department of Climate Change and Environment, B.E. …, and the draft Royal Decree on Government Agency Division for Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment’s Office of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy and Planning, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment.
Gist
The draft Royal Decree on Government Agency Division for Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment’s Department of Climate Change and Environment, B.E. … prescribes restructuring of the Department of Climate Change and Environment which includes 2 clusters, 2 centers, 1 office, and 4 divisions under the former Department of Environmental Quality Promotion; and 1 division transferred from Office of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy and Planning.
The draft Royal Decree on Government Agency Division for Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment’s Office of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy and Planning, B.E. …prescribes transfer of Office of Natural Resources and Environmental Policy and Planning’s Division of Climate Change Management and Coordination to be under the Department of Climate Change and Environment.
​
Title: Use of Ratchaphatsadu Land for land readjustment in Nong Ta Hiam, Aranyiksubdistrict, Muang district, Phitsanulokprovince
The cabinet approved the use of 104-3-64 rai ofRatchaphatsadu Land, plot no. Por Lor 385, for land readjustment in Nong Ta Hiam, Aranyiksubdistrict, Muang district, Phitsanulok province. This is as proposed by Ministry of Interior.
Before proposing the matter to the cabinet, use of Ratchaphatsadu Land, plot no. Por Lor 385 for land readjustment in Nong Ta Hiam, Aranyiksubdistrict, Muang district, Phitsanulok provincehas been approved/approved in principle/endorsed by Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, Office of Permanent Secretary to the Prime Minister’s Office, Office of National Economic and Social Development Council, and Office of National Land Policy Committee. Public hearing was also conducted with 88.30% of the people vote for the use of Ratchaphatsadu Land for land readjustment.
Title: Approval on allocation of Government’s central fund for contingency and emergencyfor renumeration payment to public personnel of Office of National Human Rights Commission
The cabinet approved in principle the allocation of Government’s central fund for contingency and emergency for renumeration payment to public personnel of Office of National Human Rights Commission for the total amount of 17,381,600 Baht. This is as proposed by Office of National Human Rights Commission.
Title: Beijing Statement for the First High-level Meeting of Forum on Global Action for Shared Development
The cabinet approved the draft Beijing Statement for the First High-level Meeting of Forum on Global Action for Shared Development. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall proceed as appropriate. Head of the Thai delegation to the First High-level Meeting of Forum on Global Action for Shared Development is authorized to adopt the Statement at the meeting, which will be held on July 9-10, 2023 in Beijing, PRC. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Gist
The draft Beijing Statement for the First High-level Meeting of Forum on Global Action for Shared Development demonstrates the jointcommitment in addressing development challenges to accelerate sustainable developmentthrough various implementations, such as poverty reduction, promotion of food and public health security, climate action, green development, and digital connectivity, as well as South-North cooperation, among others.
​

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/70104