รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on December 12, 2023


วันอังคารที่ 19 ธันวาคม 2566
19/12/2566
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on December 12, 2023
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on government agencies under Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University, Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation, B.E. …
The cabinet acknowledged the draft Ministerial Regulation on government agencies under Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University, Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation, B.E. …, which has been scrutinized by Office of Council of State, and ordered the Cabinet Secretariat to forward this matter to Minister of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation for signing before the draft Ministerial Regulation being announced in the Royal Gazette.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on government agencies under Suan Sunandha Rajabhat University, Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Research and Innovation, B.E. … prescribes change of name of “Faculty of Industrial Technology” to “Faculty of Engineering and Industrial Technology” to be in line with its current mission and operation.
Title: Request for Government’s contingency fund for emergency (central fund) for relief provision to Thai workers affected by unrest in Israel (FY2024)
The cabinet approved the proposal of Ministry of Labor on the allocation of the Government’s contingency fund for emergency (central fund) for relief provision to Thai workers affected by unrest in Israel (FY2024), for the total amount of 750,000,000 Baht.
Gist
Eligible workers will be divided in 4 groups:
No.
Targeted Workers
Budget
Number (persons)
Relief payment / person
Total
1.
Thai workers who returned from Israel after October 7, 2023
9,475
50,000
473,750,000
2.
Thai workers who have been deceased during unrest
39
50,000
1,950,000
3.
Thai workers with Re-Entry Visa who have returned to Thailand before October 7, 2023 but were unable to return to work in Israel because Department of Employment delayed their travel due to the unrest
960
50,000
48,000,000
4.
Estimated number of Thai workers who are expected to return home or wish to return home (including Thai workers who are still being held hostage)
4,526
50,000
226,300,000
Total
15,000
50,000
750,000,000
As of December 6, 2023
Title: Letter of Intent between Thailand International Cooperation Agency (TICA) and Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) with International Organization for Migration (IOM) on the Cooperation to Implement the Project on Poverty Reduction through Safe Migration, Skills Development, and Enhanced Job Placement in Cambodia, Lao PDR, Myanmar and Thailand (PROMISE II)
The cabinet approved the proposals made by Ministry of Foreign Affairs as follows:
Approved the Letter of Intent between Thailand International Cooperation Agency (TICA) and Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) with International Organization for Migration (IOM) on the Cooperation to Implement the Project on Poverty Reduction through Safe Migration, Skills Development, and Enhanced Job Placement in Cambodia, Lao PDR, Myanmar and Thailand (PROMISE II)
Authorized Director-General of Thailand International Cooperation Agency (TICA) as signatory of the Letter of Intent
Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist, Ministry of Foreign Affairs may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet
Gist
The Project on Poverty Reduction through Safe Migration, Skills Development, and Enhanced Job Placement in Cambodia, Lao PDR, Myanmar and Thailand (PROMISE II) aims to provide greater access for migrants from Cambodia, Lao PDR and Myanmar (CLM), to skills development and employment opportunities, particularly in Thailand. Its ensuing goal is to alleviate poverty in communities of origin. The parties envisaged common objectives within the scope of skills development and migration as well as highlighted potential fields of collaboration.
The Project is implemented in partnership with the private sector, training institutions, civil society and governments. Its first phase was initiated in September 2017 and will be completed in August 2021. The second phase is expected to begin in September 2021.
The Letter of Intent prescribes scope of cooperation between the three parties, namely, Thailand International Cooperation Agency (TICA), the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC), and the International Organization for Migration (IOM).
Title: Asia Zero Emission Community (AZEC) Leaders Meeting (Asia Zero Emission Community (AZEC) Leaders' Joint Statement)
The cabinet approved the following proposals made by Ministry of Energy:
Approved the Asia Zero Emission Community (AZEC) Leaders Meeting (Asia Zero Emission Community (AZEC) Leaders' Joint Statement)
Approved for the Prime Minister (or a representative) to endorse the joint statement during the Asia Zero Emission Community (AZEC) Leaders Meeting
Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor affect national interest, Ministry of Energy may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet
Gist
The Asia Zero Emission Community (AZEC) initiative was proposed by Prime Minister Fumio Kishida of Japan in 2021. The main objective of AZEC is to substantially reduce carbon emissions in Asia. As of now, AZEC members include ASEAN country members (except Myanmar) and Australia.
According to the Asia Zero Emission Community (AZEC) Leaders' Joint Statement, member countries pledge to advance cooperation toward carbon neutrality and net zero emission with the end goal of maintaining the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. The leaders also agreed to promote policy support and collaboration in tangible projects through tailored approach towards decarbonization with the use of various technologies.
Title: Unilateral and temporary exemption of visa for short-term business-related purposes for holders of passports or travel documents of Japan
The cabinet approved in principle the proposal of Ministry of Foreign Affairs on an inclusion of “Japan” in the list of countries/territories under Ministry of Interior’s Announcement on list of countries/territories whose passport/travel document holders shall be unilaterally and temporarily exempted visa for short-term business-related purposes in entering the Kingdom for a period not exceeding 30 days from 1 January 2024 to 31 December 2026 (3 years).
Gist
Unilateral and temporary exemption of visa for short-term business-related purposes for holders of passports or travel documents of Japan is aimed to encourage economic and foreign affairs cooperation with Japan, especially trade and investment, and business operation in the fields of 1) green industry, 2) EVs, 3) medicine, 4) bioindustry, 5) digital economy, 6) infrastructure, 7) agricultural development, and 8) human resource development.
Title: Product Specific Rules of Origin (PSRs) in Harmonized System2 2022 (HS 2022) under AANZFTA
The cabinet approved the proposals made by Ministry of Commerce as follows:
Approved Product Specific Rules of Origin (PSRs) in Harmonized System2 2022 (HS 2022) under AANZFTA. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Commerce may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet
Approved for Ministry of Commerce’s Department of International Trade Negotiation, as AANZFTA Joint Committee (JC) to notify the cabinet’s approval to AANZFTA member
Approved for Ministry of Commerce and Ministry of Finance to proceed internally to ensure that Product Specific Rules of Origin (PSRs) in Harmonized System2 2022 (HS 2022) under AANZFTA be in effect by March 1, 2024.
Title: Appointment of expert as Prime Minister’s advisor who will act as Thai Trade Representative
The cabinet acknowledged Order of the Prime Minister’s Office (No. 358/2566) on Appointment of M.L. Chayotid Kridakon to become Prime Minister’s advisor who will act as Thai Trade Representative. This will take effect from December 12, 2023 onward.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/76319