รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Govt hosts Iftar Dinner for AH 1446 Ramadan 


วันพุธที่ 12 มีนาคม 2568
12/03/2568
พิมพ์
Govt hosts Iftar Dinner for AH 1446 Ramadan
Govt hosts Iftar Dinner for AH 1446 Ramadan
Government Spokesperson Jirayu Houngsub disclosed that on March 11, 2025, at 1930hrs, at Al Meroz Hotel Bangkok, Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra hosted an Iftar Dinner for AH 1446 Ramadan. Participating in the Iftar Dinner were members of the cabinet, Thailand's national Muslim leader Chularajamontree H.E. Mr. Arun Boonchom, diplomatic corps of the Islamic countries to Thailand, committee members of the Central Islamic Council of Thailand, and Muslim dignitaries and guests.
The Prime Minister expressed her pleasure and honor to host the Iftar Dinner. This is her first to attend the Iftar Dinner and listen to the recital of the Noble Qur'an for the holy month of Ramadan AH 1446. She wished all the Muslims happiness and success in their lives, as Allāh has bestowed the holy Qur'an for the Muslims to adhere to in living their daily lives. The Prime Minister commended the Thai Muslims for their performance of religious rituals with strong will and forbearance in fasting. The Holy month of Ramadan is a good chance for the Muslims to study the Noble Qur’an to express their respect and faith in Allāh, refrain from bad deeds of all kinds, and treat others with kindness and tolerance.
On the auspicious occasion of the Holy Month of Ramadan AH 1446, the Prime Minister, on behalf of the Government, asked for the blessing and holy wishes of Allāh to grant all the Thai Muslims with happiness, prosperity, and success in all endeavors. May all their Dua are answered and accepted.
The Chularajamontree thanked the Government for hosting the Iftar Dinner for Muslims in Thailand, demonstrating long-standing cordiality and coexistence between fellow countrymen of different religions, belief, and culture. Fasting during the Ramadan has been practiced by the Muslims across the globe for more than a thousand years. Ramadan is of great significance and holiness for the Muslims, during which the Qur'an was first revealed to the Prophet Muhammad. It is also the month of performing religious rites at night, making the Dua, and giving alms.
The Prime Minister, then, presented Chularajamontree with a basket of dried fruits as a souvenir for the holy month of Ramadan before the dinner started.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/94289