รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on May 2, 2023


วันจันทร์ที่ 8 พฤษภาคม 2566
08/05/2566
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on May 2, 2023
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for Medical Carbon Dioxide, B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for Medical Carbon Dioxide, B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation on Thai Industrial Standard for Medical Carbon Dioxide, B.E. …, prescribes Thai Industrial Standard for Medical Carbon Dioxide under TIS 539-25xx, to be in accordance with the Ministerial Announcement No. 6868 (B.E. 2565), issued on November 29, 2022 under the Industrial Product Standards Act, B.E. 2511, on Withdrawal and Prescription of Thai Industrial Standard for Medical Carbon Dioxide.
The draft Ministerial Regulation shall take effect 180 days after being announced in the Royal Gazette.
Title: Draft Royal Decree on Prorogation of Extraordinary Session of National Assembly, B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on Prorogation of Extraordinary Session of National Assembly, B.E. …, as proposed by Office of Prime Minister’s Secretariat, to be presented to the King together with the draft Command on Convocation of an Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly
Gist
The draft Command on Convocation of an Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly is in accordance with Section 126 (2) of the Constituion of the Kingdom of Thailand which stipulates that in the absence of the House of Representatives, the Senate shall hold its sitting to consider the appointment of a person to hold any office under the provisions of this Constitution, that is, National Anti-Corruption Commission (Section 232), Election Commission (Section 222), and State Audit Commission (Section 238). The President of the Senate shall report to the King for the issuance of a Royal Command for the Senate shall hold its sitting on May 23, 2023.
The Senate also sees it appropriate to prorogue the Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly from May 24, 2023 onward. According to Section 122 of the Constituion of the Kingdom of Thailand, the Prime Minister shall present to the King the draft Royal Decree on Prorogation of Extraordinary Session of National Assembly, B.E. ….
Title: Request for approval on outcome documents for meetings of ASEAN Economic Ministers and AEC Council to be proposed at 42nd ASEAN Summit
The cabinet approved the following proposals made by Ministry of Commerce:
Approved the draft ASEAN Leaders Declaration on Regional Development of Electric Vehicle Ecosystem and draft Annex to Roadmap for Timor-Leste’s ASEAN Membership in the AEC. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Commerce may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
Authorized Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Commerce as member of AEC Council, or a representative, to adopt the draft ASEAN Leaders Declaration on Regional Development of Electric Vehicle Ecosystem to be proposed at the 42nd ASEAN Summit.
Authorized Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Commerce as member of AEC Council, or a representative, to adopt the draft Annex to the Roadmap for Timor-Leste’s ASEAN Membership in the AEC to be proposed at the 42nd ASEAN Summit
Gist
The ASEAN Secretariat has prepared the two outcome documents in respect of the AEC Pillar. Both documents will be approved and adopted at the 22nd AEC Council meeting during May 6-7, 2023 in Jakarta, Republic of Indonesia, and at the 42nd ASEAN Summit between May 10 – 11, 2023 in Labuan Bajo, Republic of Indonesia.
Title: 16th meeting of Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Waste and their Disposal, 11th meeting of Rotterdam Convention on the Prior Informed Consent Procedure (PIC) for Certain Hazardous Chemicals and Pesticides in International Trade, and 11th meeting of Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants
The cabinet acknowledged the component of Thai delegation to attend the 16th meeting of Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Waste and their Disposal, 11th meeting of Rotterdam Convention on the Prior Informed Consent Procedure (PIC) for Certain Hazardous Chemicals and Pesticides in International Trade, and 11th meeting of Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants, as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment. Thailand’s negotiation framework and position at the 3 meetings shall be in accordance with the comments of Office of Council of State.
Gist
Thailand is invited to attend the 3 meetings, namely, the 16th meeting of Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Waste and their Disposal, 11th meeting of Rotterdam Convention on the Prior Informed Consent Procedure (PIC) for Certain Hazardous Chemicals and Pesticides in International Trade, and 11th meeting of Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants, during May 1-12, 2023, in Geneva, the Swiss Federation. The 3 meetings will be held consecutively under the overarching theme of “Accelerating action: Targets for the sound management of chemicals and waste”.
Title: Joint Statement of the 26th ASEAN+3 Finance Minister’ and Central Bank Governors’ Meeting
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Joint Statement of the 26th ASEAN+3 Finance Minister’ and Central Bank Governors’ Meeting. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Finance may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Finance or a representative is authorized to endorse the draft Statement. This is as proposed by Ministry of Finance.
Gist
The draft Joint Statement of the 26th ASEAN+3 Finance Minister’ and Central Bank Governors’ Meeting prescribes joint intent to promote financial cooperation in the region, and stipulates 2 new initiatives under the ASEAN+3 financial cooperation framework: 1) regional economic and financial development and trends; and 2) regional financial cooperation promotion, such as, 2.1. Regional Financing Arrangement (RFA) and Chiang Mai Initiative Multilateralisation (CMIM), 2.2. ASEAN+3 Macroeconomic Research Office (AMRO), 2.3. Asian Bond Markets Initiative (ABMI), etc.
Title: Joint Statement of the Twenty-Ninth ASEAN Socio-Cultural Community (ASCC) Council
The cabinet approved the draft Joint Statement of the Twenty-Ninth ASEAN Socio-Cultural Community (ASCC) Council. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Social Development and Human Security may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Social Development and Human Security or a representative, as head of the Thai delegation at the 29th ASEAN Socio-Cultural Community (ASCC) Council Meeting, is authorized to endorse the draft Statement in the meeting dated May 8, 2023. This is as proposed by Ministry of Social Development and Human Security.
Gist
The 29th ASEAN Socio-Cultural Community (ASCC) Council Meeting will be held on May 8, 2023 in Bali, Republic of Indonesia. The draft Joint Statement of the Twenty-Ninth ASEAN Socio-Cultural Community (ASCC) Council prescribes ASCC advancement and accomplishments under Indonesia’s ASEAN chairmanship with the overarching theme of “ASEAN Matters: Epicentrum of Growth”, e.g., strengthening regional health architecture; empowering villages to enable rapid rural development at the regional level; promoting environmental cooperation for biodiversity conservation and mitigation of impacts of climate change, etc.
Title:  Declaration of the Meeting of Ministers of Culture of the G-77 and China
The cabinet approved the draft Declaration of the Meeting of Ministers of Culture of the G-77 and China, and authorized representative of Minister of Culture to adopt the Declaration. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Culture may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet.
Gist
The draft Declaration of the Meeting of Ministers of Culture of the G-77 and China prescribes reflection on the contemporary challenges of the cultural sector aggravated by the COVID-19 pandemic in our nations, while promoting initiatives aimed at taking action on the social and economic dimensions of culture for sustainable development, social transformation and inclusion and fostering cooperation mechanisms and alternatives that strengthen culture as a global public good and encourage the exchange of best practices and capacity building in developing countries. The draft Declaration also highlights the relevance of the UNESCO World Conference on Cultural Policies and Sustainable Development, MONDIACULT 2022 (Mexico City, September 2022), which affirmed that culture is a global public good and a fundamental factor in achieving sustainable development, peace and stability.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/68015