รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Cabinet approves acquisition of land for establishment of industrial estates in EEC and Lamphun province


วันพุธที่ 25 มกราคม 2566
25/01/2566
พิมพ์
Cabinet approves acquisition of land for establishment of industrial estates in EEC and Lamphun province
Cabinet approves acquisition of land for establishment of industrial estates in EEC and Lamphun province
January 24, 2023, Deputy Government Spokesperson Ratchada Thanadirek disclosed that the cabinet has made approval to the purchase of land for an establishment of industrial estates in the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC), and in Lamphun province.
Industrial estate development project in the EEC, located in Samnak Thong subdistrict, Muang district, Rayong, will be implemented with the approx. budget of 4,385 million Baht from the revenue and saving of Industrial Estate Authority of Thailand. Under the area of 1,482 rai, the project aims to attract investment in the S-Curve industries, i.e., next-generation automotive, aviation and logistics, smart electronics, biofuels and biochemicals, medical and healthcare, and industrial waste recycling, from Japanese investors, its main target group. It is expected that the industrial estate be sold out or rented out within 5 years after completion of construction, create employment of approx. 13,920 workers, and generate total product of 1,542.34 million Baht.
Industrial estate development project in Lamphun province, located in Makhua Jae and Ban Klang subdistricts, Muang district, Lamphun, will be implemented with the approx. budget of 2,160 million Baht from the revenue and saving of Industrial Estate Authority of Thailand. Under the area of 653 rai plus 25 rai of access road, the project aims to attract investment in electronics parts, jewelries, garment, food processing, and biotechnology from the Japanese investors as well. It is expected that the industrial estate be sold out or rented out within 5 years after completion of construction, create employment of approx. 8,415 workers, and generate total product of 277.85 million Baht.
According to the Deputy Government Spokesperson, the cabinet also instructed Industrial Estate Authority of Thailand (IEAT) to come up with a risk management plan in the case that some plots of the land could not be acquired as planned. If that is the case, IEAT may compare cost effectiveness between establishing new industrial estates and optimizing area in the existing estates.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/64145