รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM receives Children’s Day gifts from Poh Teck Tung Foundation


วันศุกร์ที่ 10 มกราคม 2568
10/01/2568
พิมพ์
PM receives Children’s Day gifts from Poh Teck Tung Foundation
PM receives Children’s Day gifts from Poh Teck Tung Foundation
January 8, 2025, at 1330hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Ku Fah Building, Government House, Mr. Vichien Tejpaibul, Chairman of Poh Teck Tung Foundation and the delegation paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister Paetongtarn Shinawatra to hand over 60,000 sets (240,000 pieces) of stationaries on occasion of the 2025 Children’s Day. Secretariat of the Prime Minister will distribute the stationaries to the Government House Children's Day Organizing Committee, government agencies, schools, and communities, as gifts for the children who attend 2025 Children’s Day celebration across the country.
Chairman of Poh Teck Tung Foundation informed the Prime Minister that giving gifts on Children's Day is one of the foundation’s main activities that has been continued for 66 years since 1959. By giving gifts to the children, the foundation intends to share love and happiness, and to encourage them to keep learning to become responsible adults for the country in the future. Poh Teck Tung Foundation wishes all the Thai children to value morality, filial piety, frugality, and study, and to stay away from narcotic drugs for a good future of themselves and the country. The Foundation also donated 3,000,000 giftsets, worth 15.8 million Baht, to agencies and organizations to be given to the children nationwide.
The Prime Minister thanked Poh Teck Tung Foundation for its philanthropy and contribution to the country and people in all aspects for more than 60 years. The Government House will be opened for children to visit and join in the fun of Children's Day activities on January 11, 2025. They will get to meet with the Prime Minister and take these gifts home. It is important for children to grow up in a country of opportunity, and everyone is welcome to make a contribution, whether it big or small to the country and people. The visit of Poh Teck Tung Foundation today has inspired her and the Government to continue giving it all for the country. The Prime Minister wished everyone good health and be a strong force to drive forward Thailand in all aspects.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/92197