รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-H.E. Mr. Don Pramudwinai presided over the opening of the annual Thailand National Science and Technology (NST) Fair 2023 and presented the Prime Minister’s Science Awards 2023 


วันอาทิตย์ที่ 13 สิงหาคม 2566
13/08/2566
พิมพ์
H.E. Mr. Don Pramudwinai presided over the opening of the annual Thailand National Science and Technology (NST) Fair 2023 and presented the Prime Minister’s Science Awards 2023
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs presided over the opening of the annual Thailand National Science and Technology (NST) Fair 2023 and presented the Prime Minister’s Science Awards 2023 at the Impact Exhibition Hall
On 11 August 2023, Mr. Don Pramudwinai, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, on behalf of the Prime Minister, presided over the opening of Thailand National Science and Technology Fair 2023 and presented the Prime Minister’s Science Awards 2023 to distinguished science teachers, outstanding students and their supervising teachers for their excellent science and technology projects.
The National Science and Technology Fair 2023 was held from 11-20 August 2023 to showcase the success in promoting science and technology as well as innovation by the late Kings of Thailand and various institutions and individuals. The theme of “For Bright and Creative Generation (BCG)” was chosen to inspire the learning of science and technology, and promoting innovation that is essential in driving towards creative economy and supporting the path to BCG (Bio-Circular-Green) economy and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). More than 113 booths were present from various agencies and 7 foreign embassies in Bangkok to share their success and potential benefits of science and technology to youth and the public. Visitors had the opportunity to participate interactively in various activities and experiments that inspire their critical thinking and innovation skill. Another related activity - NST Fair Science Carnival Bangkok - was also held at Bangkok Art and Cultural Center in downtown Bangkok from 17-20 August 2023 to offer youth and local community a chance to enjoy and appreciate the interaction of art and science applications that is prevalent in our daily life.
In his opening remarks, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs alluded to the importance of “education and learning as part of every Thai’s DNA” that must have no restriction in the access to knowledge which is borderless. They should also be available even outside school, university or any other learning institutions.
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs also presented the Prime Minister’s Science Awards to two distinguished science teachers, and four teams of outstanding students and their respective supervising teachers who have been chosen at the national level for their excellent science and technology projects. These distinguished awards were given annually to inspire secondary students to strive for the advancement in their study of science and technology application that would further encourage them to continue scientific learning at higher levels.
After the opening ceremony, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs as well as Minister of Higher Education, Science and Innovation paid a visit to various booths organised by foreign embassies and agencies with keen interest and mingled with students who participate enthusiastically in many quizzes and experiments.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/71258