รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Statement by Ms. Paetongtarn Shinawatra, Prime Minister Thailand’s position on US trade policy


วันอาทิตย์ที่ 6 เมษายน 2568
06/04/2568
พิมพ์
Statement by Ms. Paetongtarn Shinawatra, Prime Minister Thailand’s position on US trade policy
6 April 2025
Dear fellow citizens, in the past 2 weeks, our country, Thailand, has faced many unexpected events. The earthquake that caused severe damage to the lives, property and the mental state of Thais spurred the Government to undertake all required actions to address every aspect of the situation, in order to be able to provide the necessary assistance and compensation for the damages that occurred. We have been through many national crises before, and with the unity, assistance, and kindness of the people of our nation, I am confident that we will be able to overcome this crisis.
Today, Thailand is facing measures that will increase tariffs on Thai products exported to the United States at a rate of 36 percent. Many countries are in the same situation as Thailand and preparing measures to cope with this development. We believe that the world is about to see severe retaliation through reciprocal tariff tools, with many countries also deciding to negotiate with the US Government. However, to this day, no conclusions regarding any such negotiations have been reached.
For Thailand, this measure has had a significant impact on our exports, especially electronic products, processed foods and agricultural products. The Government has set up a working group on this issue since 6 January of this year and has been discussing formal and informal proposals with the private sector, including US representatives, all along. Next week, Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Pichai Chunhavajira will travel to discuss with various sectors in the United States, including the public and private sectors, as well as stakeholders who have been severely impacted from these significant changes to US trade policy at this time. What we will convey to the US government is that Thailand is not just an exporter, but we are a reliable ally and economic partner for the long term. Today, the Government has summarized various policy proposals, such as increasing imports from the US in the area of energy, aircraft, and agricultural products. Thailand has a plan to enhance cooperation with the agricultural sector, industrial sector, and other groups that have an important place in the US democratic system. There are many more details to our proposal. Please be assured that they take into account Thailand’s interests above all else. In addition, Thailand will negotiate to promote Thai investment in the US and work to reduce import conditions that are obstacles to our goods, including cracking down on false claims of origin for products that use Thailand to transit through to the US.
I am confident that these proposals will result in successful negotiations with the US so that Thailand and the US can remain friendly allies and trading partners. In addition, there are many other measures and proposals that the Government is ready to listen to and discuss further with the US. I would like to assure you that the proposals that the Government has prepared, all take into account the interests of the Thai people and Thailand above all else as well as the interest of our business operators and others in the Thai economic system.
I would like to assure you that you are not alone, and you are not fighting alone. The Government will have urgent short-term and long-term relief measures to help both SMEs and large industries that have been affected in the short, medium and long term by accelerating the expansion of new export markets. This will also spread the risk for the Thai business sector, as we are committed to negotiating to open up new markets in the Middle East, Europe and India, by accelerating those FTA negotiations.
Finally, I would like to state that on Tuesday, 8 April, after the working group committee and all related agencies meet once again, we will conclude the guidelines discussed, with our main priority being the interest of Thailand. I would like to emphasize once again that the Government will do everything possible to protect the interests of the country, to create a stable and strong economic base that enables Thailand to adapt to global markets and for Thailand to advance with dignity.
Ms. Paethongtarn Shinawatra
Prime Minister

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/95160