รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​Thailand provides humanitarian assistance to Cyclone Mocha-hit Myanmar


วันจันทร์ที่ 22 พฤษภาคม 2566
22/05/2566
พิมพ์
​Thailand provides humanitarian assistance to Cyclone Mocha-hit Myanmar
​Thailand provides humanitarian assistance to Cyclone Mocha-hit Myanmar
May 22, 2023, at 10.00 hrs, at the Purple Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha, on behalf of the Thai Government, offered the humanitarian assistance to Myanmar, through Ambassador H.E. U Chit Swe, following Cyclone Mocha. Also attending were Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Don Pramudwinai and representatives of supporting agencies and organizations, i.e., the Thai Red Cross Society, the Thai Chamber of Commerce and Board of Trade of Thailand, PTT Exploration and Production (PTTEP), SCG, among others. Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister expressed sincere condolences on behalf of the Thai Government and people, and conveyed his moral support to the disaster-affected victims. He also hoped that the Myanmar people would get over this difficult situation soon. Upon an official request made by Myanmar, Thailand, as immediate neighbor, would be pleased to provide humanitarian assistance to the country. The Thai Government will also dispatch personnel and will liaise with the ASEAN Coordinating Centre for Humanitarian Assistance on disaster management (AHA Center) to give additional humanitarian support should there be further request from Myanmar.
The Myanmar Ambassador to Thailand expressed appreciation toward the Government and the Thai public and private sectors for their continued support to his country. Cyclone Mocha has badly affected 18 cities in Myanmar and killed dozens. However, Cyclone Mocha has caused less damage than the Cyclone Nargis in 2008 as the Myanmar Government has learnt a lesson and gained experiences in disaster management and rehabilitation. According to the Myanmar Ambassador to Thailand, the 18 Cyclone-hit cities have now been provided with immediate relief and restoration by the military and local administrations.
Handover ceremony of goods for humanitarian assistance will take place tomorrow (May 23, 2023) at 1000hrs, at the Yangon International Airport in Myanmar. The Thai Red Cross Society, and the Thai Chamber of Commerce and Board of Trade of Thailand have also opened bank accounts from now until May 31, 2023 to receive donation from the public for Cyclone Mocha-affected Myanmar people:
1.) The Thai Red Cross Society: SCB current account: 045-3-04637-0
2.) Thai Chamber of Commerce: KBANK savings account: 004-2-39457-2
The Thai Government, at the cabinet meeting dated May 16, 2023, has approved in principle for Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other concerned agencies to consider providing immediate humanitarian assistance, as appropriate, to Myanmar following Cyclone Mocha.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/68434