รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-​PM hands down policy on EVs industry to ensure balance between economic growth and environmental protection


วันศุกร์ที่ 2 ธันวาคม 2565
พิมพ์
​PM hands down policy on EVs industry to ensure balance between economic growth and environmental protection
​PM hands down policy on EVs industry to ensure balance between economic growth and environmental protection
December 2, 2022, Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha has handed down a policy to promote Thailand as EV manufacturing base through green investment, and instructed concerned agencies to incorporate environmental goals in their operation, in line with the Government’s policy on EVs and renewable energy, toward carbon neutrality.
The Government strives to promote green energy and economic growth, and to develop the country’s EV industry through implementation of the [email protected] campaign, which aims to boost manufacturing capacity of EVs by 30% by 2030, in order for Thailand to become ASEAN’s EV manufacturing hub. The private sector has, so far, welcomed these policy and direction, as seen in an increase of foreign investment in the country’s EV industry.
According to Arthur D. Little (ADL)’s article on its website: https://www.adlittle.com/ on 2022 Global Electric Mobility Readiness Index (GEMRIX), Thailand ranks 9 and is categorized as “Emerging EV Market” with the score between 40-60. Comparing to the year 2018, in which Thailand was ranked 13th, the country has shown a number of positive developments, including the Government’s incentives that would accelerate growth in EVs industry. ADL noted Thailand’s potential to become leader in EV manufacturing at the regional level despite some challenges.
The Government Spokesperson thanked all concerned sectors, on behalf of the Government, for their contribution to make Thailand one of the world’s emerging EV markets. The Government stands ready to provide support and accommodate consumers’ increasing demand for EVs in the years to come, and to exchange views with stakeholders on excellent practices and investment expansion to promote research and innovation that ensure balance between economic growth and environmental protection.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/62260