รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on April 11, 2023


วันจันทร์ที่ 17 เมษายน 2566
17/04/2566
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on April 11, 2023
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on exemption of toll fee for Motorway No. 7 and No. 9 for a specified period (No. …) B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Royal Decree on exemption of toll fee for Motorway No. 7 and No. 9 for a specified period (No. …) B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Transport.
Gist
The draft Royal Decree prescribes exemption of toll fee for Motorway No. 7 (Bangkok-Ban Chang), and No. 9 (Kanchanaphisek Rd.: - Bang Phli - Phra Pradaeng) from 0001hrs of April 12, 2023 to 2400hrs of April 18, 2023. This is to facilitate people’s traveling during Songkran holidays.
Title: Joint nomination of kebaya for Unesco’s intangible cultural heritage list
The cabinet approved the document for joint nomination of kebaya for Unesco (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization)’s intangible cultural heritage list, together with Brunei, Malaysia and Singapore, and authorized Director-General of the Department of Cultural Promotion, in his capacity as Secretary of the Committee for Promotion and Preservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage, as signatory of the document for Thailand. This is as proposed by Ministry of Culture.
Gist
Joint nomination of kebaya for Unesco’s intangible cultural heritage list has been approved by the Committee for Promotion and Preservation of Intangible Cultural Heritage on December 16, 2022. The document is titled “Kebaya: Knowledge, Skills, Tradition and Practices”. Kebaya is a cultural identity and shared cultural heritage in the Southeast Asian region.
Thailand's intangible cultural heritages currently include Khon, a dance drama genre, traditional Thai massage, or Nuad Thai, and Nora, which is an acrobatic form of dance theater and improvisational singing from southern Thailand.
Title: Draft MOU on Cultural Cooperation between Ministry of Culture of Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Culture of the Russian Federation
The cabinet approved the draft MOU on Cultural Cooperation between Ministry of Culture of Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Culture of the Russian Federation, and authorized Minister of Culture as signatory of the MOU. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Culture may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. This is as proposed by Ministry of Culture.
Gist
The draft MOU on Cultural Cooperation between Ministry of Culture of Kingdom of Thailand and Ministry of Culture of the Russian Federation is aimed to promote continued exchange of culture in various aspects, i.e., arts, languages, literature, museum cooperation, conservation of cultural heritage, movies, music, theater, and visual arts.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/67351