รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on August 15, 2023.


วันจันทร์ที่ 21 สิงหาคม 2566
21/08/2566
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on August 15, 2023.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Request for use of watershed area, class 1A, for construction of railway project, route: Den Chai - Chiang Rai - Chiang Khong
The cabinet approved the used of watershed area, class 1A, for the construction of State Railway of Thailand’s project, route: Den Chai - Chiang Rai - Chiang Khong, as proposed by Ministry of Transport.
Gist
Railway project, route Den Chai - Chiang Rai - Chiang Khong, is one of the Government’s double-track rail construction projects under Thailand's transport infrastructure development strategy (2015-2022). As part of the rail route, a train tunnel, 2,376-meter long, has to be constructed over the watershed area, class 1A, in Doi Luang district’s Chokchai subdistrict, and in Chiang Khong district’s Huay Sor subdistrict, Chiang Rai province. The total area of 52 rai 2 ngan 57 square wah must be used for the construction.
Title: Outcome of 8th session of Joint Thai-Russian Commission on Bilateral Cooperation and parallel activities
The cabinet acknowledged and approved the outcome of the 8th session of Joint Thai-Russian Commission on Bilateral Cooperation and parallel activities, and assigned concerned agencies to proceed at the first opportunity with the implementation of the meeting outcomes. Ministry of FOreigna Affairs is to take the opinions of Ministry of Transport and Office of National Economic and Social Development Council; and the remarks of the Royal Thai Police into consideration.
Gist
On April 27, 2023, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs hosted the 8th session of the Joint Thai-Russian Commission on Bilateral Cooperation co-chaired by H.E. Mr. Don Pramudwinai, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, and H.E. Mr. Aleksei Chekunkov, Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic of Russia. The Meeting attached importance to maintaining the dynamics of and building upon Thailand-Russia cooperation in key areas, notably trade and investment facilitation, energy, science, technology, and innovation (STI), NTB reduction in agricultural and fishery products, education, culture, sports, transport, tourism, environment, and health.
The Co-Chairmen also adopted the Agreed Minutes of the 8th Session of the Commission and witnessed the signing ceremony of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Tourism and Sports and the Ministry of Sports of Russia on Physical Education and Sports Cooperation.
DPM/FM and Minister Chekunkov delivered welcoming remarks for the Seminar on "Russian Far East and Arctic — Exploring New Perspectives and Opportunities" at a forum co-organized by the Federation of Thai Industries and the Russian Far East and Arctic Corporation to provide an opportunity for private sectors of both sides to network and learn more about each side's economic potential.
Title: Draft APEC 2023 Women and the Economy Statement
The cabinet approved the draft APEC 2023 Women and the Economy Statement. Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Social Development and Human Security may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet. Minister of Social Development and Human Security or a representative is authorized to adopt the APEC 2023 Women and the Economy Statement, in a meeting held on August 20, 2023, in Seattle, Washington State, U.S.
Gist
APEC 2023 Women and the Economy Statement prescribes closing gender gaps in the workforce; identifying barriers on women's economic participation; promoting women’s access to financial sources and markets; closing gender digital divide; women’s capacity and leadership building; building care infrastructure; advancing gender equality in efforts to address climate change; and promoting gender equality in global value chains, among others.
The APEC 2023 Women and the Economy Statement also provided policy directions for member economies to support the implementation of the La Serena Roadmap on Women and Inclusive Growth.
Title: Draft joint statement of the 29th APEC SME Ministerial Meeting
The cabinet has made approval to the draft joint statement of the 29th APEC SME Ministerial Meeting, as proposed by Office of SMEs Promotion (OSMEP). The joint statement will be endorsed at the 29th APEC SME Ministerial Meeting, to be carried out in Seattle, U.S., on August 21, 2023, under the theme: “Creating a Resilient and Sustainable Future for All”.
Gist
Gist of the statement is as follows:
1.         Promoting an open, dynamic, resilient, and peaceful Asia-Pacific community for the prosperity of people of current and next generations, and continuing to support women-owned MSMEs to increase economic opportunities
2.         Affirming APEC Ministers’ commitment to support MSMEs in leveraging digital technology and getting access to global value chain, and in transitioning into the BCG Economic Model through policy implementation and technical cooperation. Promoting economic engagement of MSMEs, women, and others with untapped economic potential at both local, regional, and global levels
3.         Promoting resilient and sustainable capacity building of the MSMEs through connecting them with global supply chain and value chain, applying technology in enhancing trade competitiveness, supporting transition into the BCG Economic Model, promoting transparent and ethical business operation, and enhancing economic potential of those who lack opportunities, such as women, people with disabilities, and those from remote and rural communities.
Title: Outcome documents for 43rd ASEAN Summit and related meetings
The cabinet approved 14 draft outcome documents for 3 meetings, namely, 1) the 55th ASEAN Economic Ministers (AEM) to be held on August 17-22, 2023; 2) the 23rd AEC Council to be held on September 2-3, 2023; and 3) the 43rd ASEAN Summit to be held during September 4-7, 2023, all of which will be hosted by Indonesia.
Gist
The cabinet approved 8 outcome documents for the 55th ASEAN Economic Ministers (AEM) as follows:
Roadmap of ASEAN Standard Harmonization to Support SDGs Implementation, which prescribes standard harmonization to support SDGs implementation, such as ISO, IEC, etc.
Terms of Reference of ASEAN - India Trade in Goods Agreement Joint Committee (AITIGA-JC), prescribing role and scope of work of AITIGA-JC
Work Plan for ASEAN - India Trade in Goods Agreement Negotiations 2023 – 2024, prescribing plan for trade negotiation between ASEAN – India which is scheduled to finalize by December 2024
Possible Negotiating Structure for the Review of the ASEAN - India Trade in Goods Agreement
2023 - 2024 ASEAN - U.S. Trade and Investment Framework Arrangement (TIFA) and Expanded Economic Engagement (E3) Workplan
Future Design and Action Plan for an Innovative and Sustainable ASEAN - Japan Economic Co-Creation 2023 – 2033, which sets direction for economic cooperation between ASEAN and Japan in the next 10 years, to commemorate the 50th anniversary of relations between the two parties
ASEAN - China Initiative on Enhancing Cooperation on E-Commerce, which is aimed to reduce digital development gap and expand cooperation in e-commerce
ASEAN - EU Trade and Investment Work Programme 2024 – 2025, which will be a framework for economic cooperation between the two regions
The following 4 outcome documents will be adopted at the 23rd AEC Council:
Development of ASEAN Strategy for Carbon Neutrality, prescribing ASEAN guideline for carbon neutrality and implementations to reduce NDCs
Ministerial Declaration on the Framework for ASEAN Industrial Projects Based Initiative (AIPBI), which demonstrates joint commitment of ASEAN economic ministers in developing framework for ASEAN industrial projects
Study on the ASEAN Digital Economy Framework Agreement (DEFA), a report on DEFA to increase capacity of the region’s digital technology through cross-border cooperation and capacity enhancement
Framework for Negotiating the ASEAN Digital Economy Framework Agreement, which prescribes the guideline for ASEAN’s negotiation on digital economy
Two outcome documents will be adopted at the 43rd ASEAN Summit:
Leaders’ Statement on the Development of the ASEAN Digital Economy Framework Agreement (DEFA), which demonstrates commitment of ASEAN leaders to officially start ASEAN Digital Economy Framework negotiation
ASEAN Blue Economy Framework, a guideline for sustainable and comprehensive implementation of ASEAN blue economy

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/71498