รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand – India agree to promote exchange of visits at all levels


วันอังคารที่ 10 มกราคม 2566
Thailand – India agree to promote exchange of visits at all levels
Thailand – India agree to promote exchange of visits at all levels
January 9, 2023, at 11.00 hrs, at the Ivory Room, Thai Khu Fah Building, Government House, H.E. Mr. Nagesh Singh, Ambassador of the Republic of India to Thailand, paid a courtesy call on Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha on occasion of his assumption of duty. Deputy Secretary-General to the Prime Minister and Acting Government Spokesperson Anucha Burapachaisri disclosed gist of the meeting as follows:
The Prime Minister welcomed the Indian Ambassador and expressed hope that during his tenure in Thailand, the Ambassador would further strengthen relations between Thailand and India into the future. Thailand stands ready to provide support to the Ambassador, and promotes cooperation with India in the areas of mutual interest, i.e., political, security, trade and investment, tourism, and bilateral cooperation. He also conveyed his regards and New Year wishes to the President, Prime Minister and the people of India.
The Indian Ambassador expressed pleasure to meet with the Prime Minister today, and conveyed the regards of the Indian Prime Minister to the Thai Government and Prime Minister. Thailand has always been a good friend of India. Both countries are very close, especially in terms of culture, language, history, and religion. Thailand’s “Look West Policy” is also relevant with India’s “Act East Policy”, and the Ambassador committed to work together with the Thai Government to promote cordial relations and cooperation in all aspects.
Both parties also discussed other issues of cooperation:
On political cooperation, the two sides came to terms to promote exchange of visits at all levels. The Prime Minister sincerely hoped that the Indian Premier accepts the invitation to attend the BIMSTEC Summit, to be hosted by Thailand this coming August. The Indian Ambassador committed to push forward exchange of visits at all levels, an affirmed his country’s support over Thailand’s BIMSTEC chairmanship.
With regards to tourism cooperation, the Indian Ambassador were pleased with the number of Indian tourists entering Thailand in 2022, which is almost a million. The country is also a popular wedding destination for the Indians. He also affirmed his commitment to promote people-to-people relations between the two countries. The Prime Minister expressed hope that the number of Indian tourists reaches 2 million per year like the pre-COVID-19 period.
On economic cooperation, both parties were pleased with Thailand-India trade value which accounts for over US$16.5 billion during January and November 2022, an increase of 21%YoY. Both countries have potential to increase trade and investment in the fields of mutual expertise and interest. The Prime Minister hopes that Indian businessmen consider investing in the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC) in modern automotive, smart electronics, or robotics, aviation and logistics, biofuel and biochemicals, digital, and medicine.
The Prime Minister and Indian Ambassador also agreed on the development of land, marine, and air connectivity under various cooperation frameworks. The Prime Minister stands ready to support a project or an initiative for land route construction between Southeast Asia and other regions, especially South Asia. He also hoped that the India–Myanmar–Thailand Trilateral Highway (IMT Highway) construction project would soon complete in order to link India and the Southeast Asian region, thereby, promoting trade and investment, and people-to-people interaction.
Thailand and India also agreed to promote cultural exchange and education cooperation. The Prime Minister was pleased with the signing of Agreement between the two Governments on cultural exchange, while the Indian Ambassador expressed pleasure to also push forward exchange of cooperation in music, dramas, and dances.
The Prime Minister affirmed Thailand’s commitment to strengthen tangible medical and public health cooperation with India, especially in R&D and medicine under the MOU on public health and medical research, signed at the Joint Committee meeting between the two countries.
On security cooperation, the Indian Ambassador was pleased with close military and security cooperation, especially the regular joint military training. Thailand stands ready to increase cooperation with India in the fields of marine security, new forms of security, and national defense industry, and cyber security training.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/63599