รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on December 3, 2024


วันจันทร์ที่ 9 ธันวาคม 2567
09/12/2567
พิมพ์
The cabinet met on December 3, 2024
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Bangkok (Khlong Sam Wa district’s O Ngern, Sai Mai, East Samwa, and West Samwa subdistricts), and Pathum Thani province (Lam Luk Ka district’s Lad Sawai, Beung Kham Proi, Lam Luk Ka, and Beung Thonglang subdistricts), B.E. …
The cabinet approved the draft Royal Decree on land expropriation in parts of Bangkok (Khlong Sam Wa district’s O Ngern, Sai Mai, East Samwa, and West Samwa subdistricts), and Pathum Thani province (Lam Luk Ka district’s Lad Sawai, Beung Kham Proi, Lam Luk Ka, and Beung Thonglang subdistricts), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Transport.
Gist
The Royal Decree prescribes areas in parts of Bangkok (Khlong Sam Wa district’s O Ngern, Sai Mai, East Samwa, and West Samwa subdistricts), and Pathum Thani province (Lam Luk Ka district’s Lad Sawai, Beung Kham Proi, Lam Luk Ka, and Beung Thonglang subdistricts) to be expropriated for the construction and expansion of Chalong Rat Expressway (Jatuchote – Lam Luk Ka section). Land survey and appropriation shall commence within 180 days after the Royal Decree is in effect. The Royal Decree will be valid for 5 years.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation prescribing customs checkpoints and border checkpoints (No. …), B.E. … (Map Ta Phut Customs Checkpoint)
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation prescribing customs checkpoints and border checkpoints (No. …), B.E. … (Map Ta Phut Customs Checkpoint), as proposed by Ministry of Finance.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation is a revision to the Ministerial Regulation prescribing customs checkpoints and border checkpoints, B.E. 2560, which has been revised by the Ministerial Regulation prescribing customs checkpoints and border checkpoints (No. 8), B.E. 2566.
The revision is made on the location of Map Ta Phut Customs Checkpoint from “Map Ta Phut subdistrict, Muang district, Rayong province” to “Maenam Khu subdistrict, Pluakdeang district, Rayong province”, as a result of the relocation to a larger office of Map Ta Phut Customs Checkpoint to accommodate and facilitate better services. The new office of Map Ta Phut Customs Checkpoint has been opened for operation since October 2024.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation prescribing plastic scraps as prohibited product for importation into the Kingdom
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation prescribing plastic scraps as prohibited product for importation into the Kingdom, as proposed by Ministry of Commerce. Ministry of Commerce is to take the comments of Office of Council of State and Ministry of Interior into consideration before proceeding.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation prescribing plastic scraps as prohibited product for importation into the Kingdom, which will take effect from January 1, 2025 onward, is aimed to address oversupply and illegal import of plastics in the kingdom, and prevent smuggling of electronic waste together with the importation of plastic waste.
Title: Outcome document of 4th meeting of Thailand - Hungary Joint Commission for Economic Cooperation (JCEC)
The cabinet approved the following proposals of Ministry of Foreign Affairs:
Approved the draft outcome document of the 4th meeting of Thailand - Hungary Joint Commission for Economic Cooperation (JCEC) to be held on December 10, 2024 in Budapest, Hungary
Approved for Permanent Secretary of Ministry of Foreign Affairs to sign the document together with Hungarian Permanent Secretary of Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade
Should there be an amendment in parts that are not gist nor against national interest, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Thai delegation may proceed without having to resubmit to the cabinet
Gist
The draft outcome document of the 4th meeting of Thailand - Hungary Joint Commission for Economic Cooperation (JCEC) summarized discussion on trade and investment cooperation, as well as other areas of cooperation, i.e., environment, water resource management, agriculture, culture, energy, and tourism.
Hungary is a potential export market for Thailand in the Eastern European region. In 2023, the total trade between the two countries was worth 771.87 million USD, with Thailand having a trade surplus of 262.15 million USD (exports of 517.01 million USD, and imports of 254.86 million USD). Major export products are automobiles, automotive equipment and components, electrical switchboards and control panels, and computers. Major import products are chemicals, machinery and components, electrical machinery, and tourism. In 2023, there were 27,906 Hungarian tourists visiting Thailand. An approximate number of 7,000 Thai tourists visit Hungary per year.
Title: Approval for Thailand as location of Advisory Centre on International Investment Dispute Resolution
The cabinet approved in principle for Thailand to be the location of Advisory Centre on International Investment Dispute Resolution. This is as proposed by Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Related budget will later be proposed should Thailand be selected as the location of the Advisory Centre.
Gist
Ministry of Foreign Affairs will declare Thailand’s intention to host the Advisory Centre at the meeting of UNCITRAL (United Nations Commission on International Trade Law)’s secretariat to be held during December 2-4, 2024 in Bangkok. Should it be selected, Thailand shall start with the internal process, i.e., identifying suitable location and funding sources, and preparing related budget. Selection will be made by the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) in the next 1-2 years.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/91196