รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-The cabinet met on July 25, 2023. 


วันจันทร์ที่ 31 กรกฎาคม 2566
The cabinet met on July 25, 2023.
Some of the resolutions are as follows:
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation prescribing admission fees and other service fees for registered ancient monuments and national museums (No. …), B.E. …
The cabinet approved in principle the the draft Ministerial Regulation prescribing admission fees and other service fees for registered ancient monuments and national museums (No. …), B.E. …, as proposed by Ministry of Culture.
Gist
Under the draft Ministerial Regulation, admission fee to 72 ancient monuments and national museums will be raised as follows:
1.         Historical parks: Thai nationals: 20 Baht, foreigners: 120 -200 Baht (from 100 Baht)
2.         Archaeological sites or landmarks: Thai nationals: 10 - 20 Baht, foreigners: 80 - 120 Baht (from 50 - 100 Baht)
3.         Small-sized national museums: Thai nationals: 10 Baht, foreigners: 80 Baht (from 50 Baht)
4.         Medium-sized national museums: Thai nationals: 10 - 20 Baht, foreigners: 120 Baht (from 50 - 100 Baht)
5.         Large-sized national museums: Thai nationals: 20 - 30 Baht, foreigners: 200 Baht (from 100 - 150 Baht)
6.         Popular national museums (i.e., National Museum Bangkok and the National Gallery of Thailand): Thai nationals: 30 Baht, foreigners: 240 Baht
Admission fee to ancient monuments and national museums has not been raised for over 15 years since 1998. Revenues earned will go to the Archaeological Fund, set up under the Ancient Monuments, Antiques, Objects of Art and National Museums Act, B.E. 2504 (1961), to subsidize maintenance and conservation expenses. The cabinet also approved that admission fees to ancient monuments and national museums for Thai nationals remain unchanged to encourage public’s learning and conservation of arts, culture, and national identity, and to avoid imposing extra financial burden to Thai tourists.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation prescribing mangrove forest area in Pattani province as protected mangrove forest area, B.E. ....
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation prescribing mangrove forest area in Pattani province as protected mangrove forest area, B.E. ...., as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment. The Ministry is to take opinions of Office of National Economic and Social Development Council into consideration.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation prescribes mangrove forest area in Pattani province as protected mangrove forest area, and determines protection measures for the benefit of preservation, conservation, and restoration of mangrove forest areas in order to maintain natural abundance and ecosystem. Mangrove forest areas in Pattani province prescribed in the draft Ministerial Regulation include the areas in Nong Jik district’s Tha Kam Sam, Bang Khao, Bang Tawa, and Tuyong subdistricts; Muang district’s Rusamilae, Bana, and Tanyong Suloh subdistricts; Yaring district’s Laem Pho, Bangpu, Yamu, and Taloh Kapor subdistricts; and Mai Kaen district’s Mai Kaen, Sai Thong, and Don Sai subdistricts.
Title: Draft Ministerial Regulation prescribing mangrove forest area in Phetchaburi province as protected mangrove forest area, B.E. ....
The cabinet approved in principle the draft Ministerial Regulation prescribing mangrove forest area in Phetchaburi province as protected mangrove forest area, B.E. ...., as proposed by Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment. The Ministry is to take opinions of Ministryof Agriculture and Cooperatives, and Office of National Economic and Social Development Council into consideration.
Gist
The draft Ministerial Regulation prescribes mangrove forest area in Phetchaburi province, for the total of 9,534 rai, as protected mangrove forest area, and determines protection measures for the benefit of preservation, conservation, and restoration of mangrove forest areas in order to maintain natural abundance and ecosystem. Mangrove forest areas in Phetchaburi province prescribed in the draft Ministerial Regulation include Ban Laem district’s Bang Taboon Ok, Ban Laem, Bang Khun Sai, Pak Thale, Bang Kaew, and Laem Phak Bia subdistricts; and Cha-Am district’s Cha-am subdistrict.
Title: Thailand’s rank in IMD’s world competitiveness index 2023
The cabinet acknowledged Thailand’s rank in the World Competitiveness Rankings 2023, announced by International Institute for Management Development (IMD), which is up 3 notches from 33rd last year to 30th out of 64 economies ranked under the report. The country ranks 3rd among ASEAN countries. For an overall performance, Thailand fares better in all factors although three sub-criteria, namely, education, health and environment, and scientific infrastructure saw a decline.
Gist
Thailand’s ranking result by factors are as follows:
1.         Economic performance: at 16th (up 18 notches from 34th in 2022), contributed by an improvement of its sub-criteria, be it, domestic economy, international trade, international investment, employment, and prices.
2.         Government efficiency: at 24th (up 7 notches from 31st in 2022), contributed by better performances in public finances, institutional framework, and business legislation. However, tax policy and societal framework saw a decline due to a decrease in personal income tax collection
3.         Business Efficiency: at 23rd (up 7 notches from 30th in 2022), contributed by an improvement in productivity & efficiency, labor market, finance, attitudes & values, whereas management practices remain stable due to a concern over business operation failure
4.         Infrastructure: at 43rd (up 1 notch from 44th in 2022), contributed by better basic infrastructure that serves business demand and the improvement of internet infrastructure. However, performances in scientific infrastructure, health & environment, and education continue to decline due to the shortage of medical and educational personnel
Title: Report on the Industrial Economics Status for Q1/2023 and April 2023, and outlook for Q2/2023
The cabinet acknowledged Industrial Economic Report for Q1/2023 and April 2023, and outlook for Q2/2023 as proposed by Ministry of Industry.
Gist
Based on the report, manufacturing production index (MPI) in Q1/2023 contracted by 3.9% QoQ due to the contraction in manufacturing for export of several products as a result of global economic recession. Key industries that caused the contraction were hard disk drive, plastic beads, and furniture, whereas key industries that have expanded well in Q1/2023 were automobiles, and oil refinery.
Manufacturing production index (MPI) for April 2023 also contracted by 8.1% YoY due to the contraction in manufacturing for export of several products as a result of global economic recession. Key industries that caused the contraction were hard disk drive (-41.59%), iron and steel (-23.36%), and furniture (-36.03%), whereas key industries that expanded well in April 2023 (YoY) were oil refinery (+1.87%), and sugar (+19.15%).
Economic outlook for key industries in Q2/2023 is as follows: iron and steel industry is expected to slightly contract (YoY); electronics industry is also expected to contract by 5.0%; and food industry as a whole is expected to slightly contract (YoY) due to a rather high base last year; whereas sugar and palm oil industry is forecasted to fare better in Q2/2023.
Title: Additional holiday on July 31, 2023
The cabinet approved the proposal made by Office of the Cabinet Secretariat to announce July 31, 2023 as an additional public holiday for 2023.
Gist
In an event that a government agency is obligated to provide services to the public, or has appointment or duty on the day, that cancellation may affect public services, head of the agency may make a decision on the holiday as deemed appropriate. State enterprises, the Bank of Thailand, and Ministry of Labor are to consider and make decision on the holiday for state enterprises, financial institutions, and private sector, respectively, as deemed appropriate and in line with related law.
Announcing July 31, 2023 as an additional holiday will make 6-day holidays during July 28 and August 2, 2023, and a total of 20 holidays in 2023. Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha also approved cancellation of a weekly cabinet meeting next week. The approval is made with an aim to promote traveling and tourism.
In a normal situation, special holidays would be proposed for approval well in advance, and the latest approval was made up until the end of June 2023. Special holidays for the latter half of the year were supposed to be approved by an incoming cabinet. However, since the incoming cabinet has yet to be set up, the special holiday committee had made a decision to propose to the incumbent cabinet for approval.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/70875