รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-PM hopes for new govt to continue promoting development of Southern border provinces


วันพุธที่ 2 สิงหาคม 2566
PM hopes for new govt to continue promoting development of Southern border provinces
PM hopes for new govt to continue promoting development of Southern border provinces
July 30, 2023, Deputy Government Spokesperson Ratchada Thanadirek disclosed that the Southern Border Provinces Administration Centre (SBPAC), in collaboration with Ministry of Foreign Affairs, led a group of the diplomats, comprising Ambassadors of Saudi Arabia, Malaysia, Kuwait, Oman, Egypt, Indonesia, Turkey, and Morocco, and chargé d'affaires of Qatar and Pakistan, to visit the Southern border provinces during July 25-27, 2023, as part of the proactive diplomatic activities to promote better understanding and perception on the area.
Ambassadors and chargé d'affaires from the 10 aforementioned countries were briefed by SBPAC on Thailand’s development direction of the Southern border provinces, and solutions to local security problems. The aim is to create strong, sustainable, fair, and non-discriminatory multicultural society regardless of religious belief, seek solutions by peaceful means for better quality of life of the local people, and promote rights and freedom in line with lifestyles, religions, cultures and traditions.
The group of Ambassadors and chargé d'affaires took the opportunity to visit Pattani’s Halal Food Industrial Estate which could attract investment from the Middle East. Ambassador of Saudi Arabia commended local business potentials, and would be glad to encourage business matching between Thai and Saudi entrepreneurs. He also called on the Thai Government to prepare sufficient skilled labors to ensure operation efficiency.
The group of the diplomats also visited Pattani Central Mosque and the province’s “Multicultural Ring” or “Kueda Chino” community which is coexisted by the people of Chinese and Melayu descent, and the Buddhists. The Ambassador of Indonesia marveled peaceful coexistence of people in the “Kueda Chino” community.
The Deputy Government Spokesperson added that the Government has continued to drive forward the development of Southern border provinces to promote multiculturalism, enhance people’s quality of life, and create revenues of the locals. Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha thanked the group of Ambassadors and chargé d'affaires for their understanding and commendation, and expressed hope that the incoming Government would continue to promote the development of Southern border provinces and cooperation between Thailand and the Muslim countries in all dimensions.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/70901