รัฐบาลไทย-ข่าวทำเนียบรัฐบาล-Thailand-Malaysia trade value aimed at US$30 billion by 2025


วันอังคารที่ 25 กรกฎาคม 2566
25/07/2566
พิมพ์
Thailand-Malaysia trade value aimed at US$30 billion by 2025
Thailand-Malaysia trade value aimed at US$30 billion by 2025
July 24, 2023, Deputy Government Spokesperson Ratchada Thanadirek disclosed that Prime Minister and Defense Minister Gen. Prayut Chan-o-cha was pleased with constant Thailand – Malaysia trade growth, and was confident that mutual trade value would reach US$30 billion by 2025 as targeted. A meeting of the Ministerial Joint Trade Committee (JTC) is also planned around the end of this year.
According to the Deputy Government Spokesperson, the Department of Trade Negotiations has recently met with the delegation of Malaysia’s Secretary General of the Ministry of Domestic Trade and Cost of Living to discuss promoting franchise business, steering fair domestic trade, and reviving border trade.
Malaysia is Thailand’s no. 1 ASEAN trade partner. Thai-Malay border trade accounts for 35% of the total trade value between the two countries, with the total border trade value of 336,118.41 million Baht in 2022, an increase of 0.05%. Thailand’s major export products are automotives and parts, refined petroleum, and computers and parts. Malaysia is also interested to promote franchise business with Thailand. Franchisers will be encouraged to attended trade expos of each other’s country to promote networking and business matching, and to exchange information related to franchise regulation and procedure. Malaysia is a potential market for Thai franchisers, especially in the field of food and beverages. At present, 6 Thai franchise businesses are operating in Malaysia, i.e., Amazon, Black Canyon, Doi Chang Coffee, Tummour, Bar B Q Plaza, and Smart Brain, whereas Malaysia-based franchise businesses in Thailand are Secret Recipe, Laundry Bar, and Unisense, among others.
Thai businesses that have recently flourished in Malaysia are agro products and processed food (especially Halal products), Thai restaurants and shops, tourism-related businesses, and construction. The Government also strives to organize marketing campaigns, seek new trade partners, and support Thai investments in Malaysia on a regular basis through: 1) organizing “I Love Thailand Fair” to promote Thai Halal food; 2) setting up Thailand Pavilion at the Malaysia International Halal Showcase (MIHAS); 3) promoting Thai food products and restaurants that are certified with “Thai SELECT” mark; and 4) creating network between The Selangor And Federal Territory Engineering And Motor Parts Traders Association (EMPTA) and FTI’s automotive industry, etc.
The Deputy Government Spokesperson underscored the Prime Minister’s support over Thailand-Malaysia cooperation promotion in all dimensions and at all levels for the two countries to grow together in a sustainable manner.

ที่มา : https://www.thaigov.go.th/news/contents/details/70676